### 2024-12-21
The funk from yesterday threatened to continue, but I managed to push it away after a bit of effort.

#### The Bookshop Woman
Read a few pages of this lovely book: [The Bookshop Woman: Nanako Hanada, Cat Anderson: 9781914240812: Amazon.com: Books](https://www.amazon.com/Bookshop-Woman-Nanako-Hanada/dp/1914240812) #books #japan 

I spotted this book first at Blue Tokai HSR, when somebody was reading it and the title caught my eye. I subsequently had a great conversation with this person about many things, but somehow forgot about the book itself.

Then suddenly, the book came to the top of my mind a few weeks ago and I put it on one of my secret santa lists. Somebody noticed and sent the book to me, and I was super pumped to read it as soon as it arrived.

It's a very sweet book. Very much in the genre of Japanese books like _When the Coffee Gets Cold_ and _Days at the Morisaki Bookshop_.

#### Meditations for Mortals Day Twenty Three
This chapter is titled _How to start from sanity: On paying yourself first_

> And yet it appears to be a fundamental rule that if you treat sanity as a state you have to reach by engaging in all manner of preparations, or getting other things out of the way first, then the main effect will be to reinforce the sense of sanity as something that’s out of reach. You’ll entrench the stress and anxiety, rather than uprooting them. You might get all sorts of useful things done – but they’ll never bring peace of mind, because you’ll effectively be telling yourself on a daily basis that peace of mind is something distant and not available right here.
> 
> That’s what I mean by ‘striving towards sanity.’ ‘Operating from sanity,’ on the other hand, means embodying a certain kind of orientation towards life first, one that treats the present moment as a place where peace of mind might, in theory, be attainable – and then going about your life from that orientation, rather than treating the activities of your life as things you’re doing in order to one day reach it. In his book Anti-Time Management, Richie Norton boils this philosophy down to two steps. One: ‘Decide who you want to be.’ Two: ‘Act from that identity immediately’.

> Treat your to-do list as a menu. In the striving-towards-sanity mindset, a to-do list is always something you’ve got to get to the end of before you’re allowed to relax. But in any context where there are more things that feel like they need doing than there’s time available in which to do them – which is the normal state of affairs, after all – a to-do list is by definition really a menu, a list of tasks to pick from, rather than to get through. And operating from sanity means treating it that way: starting with the acknowledgment that you won’t complete everything you might wish, then making your selections from the menu. Obviously, not every task on every to-do list will be as appetizing as the restaurant analogy suggests. But it’s surprising how many things do become more appetizing once you’re encountering them not as chores you have to plow through, but as options you get to pick.
