### 2025-02-10
#### How to Achieve Immortality
[How to Achieve Immortality - by Ted Gioia](https://www.honest-broker.com/p/how-to-achieve-immortality) #transhumanism #immortality #lifespan #extension #ageing

> But there are some similarities between ancient heroes doing great deeds, and today’s Silicon Valley transhumanist. They both want to be like the gods (only their methods are different). Also, they are both admired leaders in their respective societies.
> 
> That’s the part that troubles me most. If the dude slurping up stem sells in a bunker was just another crazy person, I wouldn’t worry about it. But, unfortunately, these unhinged narcissists include some of the most powerful people on the planet.
> 
> We should all be concerned about that.

…

> This is what art does. Even at secondhand.
> 
> If you’ve crossed paths with a great artist, some of that immortality might even rub off on you.
> 
> That’s a different way of surviving—and one that no tech bro can match by getting injections of teenager blood or gulping down 100 nutritional supplements per day.
> 
> It’s useful to remind ourselves of this genuine immortality of art and of the great deeds praised by the ancients—especially in an age that worships tech and marginalizes all other pursuits.
> 
> And it’s especially wise to do this, given how tech actually focuses so much on the ephemeral nowadays—all that scrolling and swiping ‘content’ that only lasts a few days, or less.
> 
> What these platforms deliver is the exact opposite of immortality. The empires of TikTok and Instagram and hundreds of other apps are built on the flimsiest of foundations—a few seconds of streaming data.
> 
> So it’s ironic that the people who promote this vapidity are seeking immortality for themselves. I doubt they will find it. But they do have good reason to fear transience and oblivion—because that’s what they’ve staked their whole careers on.

#### Economics as politics and philosophy
[Economics as politics and philosophy rather than some independent science – William Mitchell – Modern Monetary Theory](https://billmitchell.org/blog/?p=62352) #economics

> So economists know they are lying to the public about fiscal matters because if the truth about the capacity of government and the reality of all the charades about debt issuance, central bank independence, and the rest of it was understood, then we would make greater demands on government.
> 
> Just like religion that attempts to control us through fear of a terrible afterlife, economics as practised by the mainstream is a control mechanism to ensure the powerful retain their position in the pecking order and their wealth and privilege.

…

> Economics as a discipline has morphed into becoming a support mechanism to ensure private profit continues to be accumulated by the few while the rest of us increasingly struggle with various challenges that such a bias has created – deterioration in the quality and availability of housing, environmental degradation, diminishing employment quality, diminishing quality and availability of health care, increased corporatisation of education, etc
> 
> And the conduct of central banks in this era is one significant aspect of this bias.
> 
> Under the pretense of ‘fighting inflation’, they manipulate interest rates to the benefit of private bank shareholders, financial wealth holders and oversee the massive redistribution of income away from low-income mortgage holders towards high-wealth asset owners.
> 
> They demand that unemployment has to rise to the reach the unobservable NAIRU, which evades accurate statistical estimation – which is so inexact that the concept is devoid of practical use as a policy guide, quite apart from its vacuous theoretical status.
> 
> They then threaten governments with even more punishing interest rate hikes, if they don’t cut fiscal outlay to ensure the unemployment rises, and, meanwhile, they regularly make political statements about the dangers of deficits etc, then tell everyone that they are independent of the political process.

#### How Venture Capital Works
[As a startup founder, you really need to understand how venture capital works \| TechCrunch](https://techcrunch.com/2022/08/17/how-venture-capital-works/) #vc #venture #capital

Bookmarking it here because I thought it was a nice overview of the basics of how VC works - with terms like corporate VC funds, LPs 

#### Grand Strategy
[Killing A Bad Strategy Before It Kills you](https://www.robkhenderson.com/p/killing-a-bad-strategy-before-it) #books #review #strategy

Rob Henderson reviews _On Grand Strategy_ by John Lewis Gaddis.

This one stood out to me.

> **6. Leaders Must Appear Certain, Even When They Aren’t**
> 
> - Decision-making often happens without complete information.
> - Goethe: “For a man to achieve all that is demanded of him, he must regard himself as greater than he is.”
> - Self-belief, even when slightly exaggerated, can boost effectiveness in leadership, relationships, and career success.