### 2025-01-06
#### Category Theory
[On getting started with Category Theory | Ludwig](https://ludwigabap.bearblog.dev/on-getting-started-with-category-theory/) #maths #programming

> For me, Category Theory has been one of these things where, once you learn about it, you can literally see it everywhere. Everything starts looking like morphisms between objects and functors between categories. I have found the overwhelming majority of the ideas in it to be truly, deeply intuitive. It's still a work in progress to have a real sense of how immensely powerful they are, and my definition of the "essence of category theory" is still getting new shades every week.
> 
> Overall, it did help me sank in two immensely important things, that were previously only intuitions: the power of **abstraction** and **composition**

#### Coffee Shops
[Are "bad" coffee shops damaging specialty coffee's reputation? - Coffee Intelligence](https://intelligence.coffee/2024/12/bad-coffee-shops-and-specialty-coffee/)

> THERE is no shortage of coffee shops that label themselves as “specialty” – but the number of coffee shops that serve a cup of coffee that would meet James Hoffmann’s expectations are few and far between.  
> 
> Not all establishments live up to the promise of quality that the label implies. Many cafés invest in high-end equipment, for example. La Marzocco espresso machines and Mahlkönig premium electric burr coffee grinders have become increasingly common in coffee shops in recent years – but have the baristas been trained in proper brewing techniques? More often than not, the answer is no.
> 
> Others charge premium prices for coffee made from lower-grade coffees that fall short of specialty-grade standards, or serve otherwise excellent coffee using poorly maintained equipment.