### 2025-09-15
#### AGI Skepticism
[Why I Am Agnostic About AGI & ASI - by Jon Stokes](https://www.jonstokes.com/p/why-i-am-agnostic-about-agi-and-asi) #ai #agi

> Imagine my (utter lack of) surprise to see this same dynamic take hold of the AI industry. Every day, I watch the following Types of Guy post benchmark results that show LLMs going straight up and to the right in performance:
> 
> 1. **Founders** who have untold billions at stake in a contract clause that triggers when they reach AGI. (Ok, maybe just one founder. And his investors and assorted dependents and hangers on.)
> 2. **Patriots** who want to warn that America is behind in the race to AGI.
> 3. **Mercenaries** (investors, engineers) who are arm-in-arm with the aforementioned patriots, because they want to dip their beak in some of the governent money that will flow towards efforts to beat China to AGI.
> 4. **X-risk Doomers** who sincerely believe that AGI will kill us all, therefore we need to enact shockingly illiberal, draconian global measures (which they have come up with and would be in charge of) to stop it.
> 5. **E/accs** who sincerely believe that AGI will usher in a literal post-biological utopia, free of suffering and death, and the rest of Samsara.
> 6. **Threadbois** who farm engagement.
> 
> I’m sure I’ve missed a few with this list, but you get the idea. There is a _lot_ at stake in “AI number go up” discourse, both financially and spiritually (i.e., national pride, of either summoning all-powerful daemons or preventing the summoning of all-powerful demons).

#### Democracy and Nihilism
[Returning to Church Won’t Save Us from Nihilism \| The MIT Press Reader](https://thereader.mitpress.mit.edu/returning-to-church-wont-save-us-from-nihilism/) 

> Hannah Arendt similarly worried that democracy was becoming an empty ritual that was being practiced merely for the sake of practicing it. Arendt feared that politics was increasingly coming to be seen as a dirty word, as something to be avoided whenever possible, and so was becoming something people only participated in by voting in elections. Voting became all that mattered according to Arendt because voting became a way to outsource politics to politicians, thus freeing everyone else from having to be concerned with politics until the next election cycle came along.
> 
> But as Arendt warned, this reduction of democracy to an empty ritual entailed that democracy would devolve into bureaucracy, to what she called _the rule of nobody_. In a society where no one wants to take responsibility, bureaucrats have all the power because they know how to maintain the rituals that undergird society and so maintain the _appearance_ of democracy. So it would come as no surprise to Arendt that we are now trying to replace human bureaucrats with AI bureaucrats in order to create a nihilistic utopia: a society where finally _no human_ should ever have to risk taking responsibility.
> 
> What Arendt points to then as the way to combat nihilism is through the rehabilitation of politics. So rather than wanting people “to believe in belief,” or be happy that people are going to church “to have faith in something,” Arendt would probably argue that we need to work to bring back the Ancient Greek model of the _polis_ and in particular the Ancient Greek model of politics as _what gives life meaning_.
> 
> According to Arendt, the Ancient Greeks did not seek to avoid politics so they could stay home, but rather sought to avoid the home so they could gather in the marketplace and participate in politics. Young people seeking out churches would indicate for Arendt not that religion will save us from nihilism, but rather that young people are _desperate_ to find places to meet other young people that aren’t _online_.
> 
> So if we want to combat nihilism we need to create more places where people can meet face to face, places where people can engage in the Ancient Greek model of politics: recognizing that we each have a limited view of the world and so can only grow as humans by sharing with each other how we see the world.

#### Pregnancy as an aspirational aesthetic
[As birth rates decline, is pregnancy now an aspirational aesthetic? \| Dazed](https://www.dazeddigital.com/beauty/article/68270/1/declining-birth-rates-pregnancy-aspirational-aesthetic-rihanna-di-petsa) #children #kids 

> Today, baby bumps are not just accepted, but aesthetically aspirational. With the cost-of-living crisis, climate insecurity and our increasingly demanding work schedules, having children has become a luxury status symbol, Eugene Healey, a brand strategy consultant, argued in a [recent video](https://www.instagram.com/p/DFWZNyxzC88/). Whether dressed in a custom runway look or flaunted on an influencer’s artfully domestic grid, babies and bumps are viewed as an accessory to the mother’s life. Healey ends his video with a joke: “I’ve solved the challenge of declining birth rates – just make it cool!”
> 
> Alongside conservative policies, [conservative beauty ideals](https://www.dazeddigital.com/beauty/article/66958/1/beauty-backslide-how-the-pendulum-swung-back-to-thinness-and-conservatism) increasingly dominate our feeds, faces and bodies. Under these ideals, pregnant women are celebrated as beautiful because they’re fulfilling their “natural” roles of graceful wives and mothers. Many of the influencers who achieve success fit these beauty ideals: they’re often young with glowing skin, accompanied by a doting partner, and effortlessly photographed in under-the-bump maxi skirts. Just look at TikTok’s [Belly Only trend](https://www.tiktok.com/discover/belly-only-pregnancy), which celebrates the beauty of a growing bump while other changes (hormonal eczema, stomach hair and leaky nipples, to name a few of my own) stay unnoticeable.