### 2025-08-02
#### ARR as an often abused metric
[How Much Money Do OpenAI And Anthropic Actually Make?](https://www.wheresyoured.at/howmuchmoney/) #arr #ai #startups #revenue 

> If you're an avid reader of the business and tech media, you'd be forgiven for thinking that OpenAI has made (or will make) in excess of $10 billion this year, and Anthropic in excess of $4 billion.
>
> Why? Because both companies have intentionally reported or leaked their "annualized recurring revenue" – a month's revenue multiplied by 12…
> 
> …
> 
> These do not, however, **mean that their previous months were this high, nor do they mean that they've "made" anything close to these numbers.** Annualized recurring revenue is one of the most regularly-abused statistics in the startup world, and can mean everything from "[actual month]x12" to "[30 day period of revenue]x12" and in most cases it's a number that doesn't factor in churn. Some companies even move around the start dates for contracts as a means of gaming this number. 
> 
> ARR, also, doesn’t factor seasonality of revenue into the calculations. For example, you’d expect ChatGPT to have peaks and troughs that correspond with the academic year, with students cancelling their subscriptions during the summer break. If you use ARR, you’re essentially taking one month and treating it as representative of the entire calendar year, when it isn’t.
> 
> ***Sidenote**: I want to make one thing especially obvious. When I described ARR as “one of the most regularly-abused statistics in the startup world,” I meant it. ARR is only really used by startups (and other non-public companies). It’s not considered a GAAP-standard accounting practice, and public companies (those traded on the stock market) generally don’t use it because they have to report actual figures, and so there’s no point. You can’t really obfuscate something that you have to, by law, state publicly and explicitly for all to see with crafty trickery.*
> 
> These companies are sharing (or leaking) their annualized revenues for a few reasons:
>
> - So that the tech press reports them in a way that makes it sound like they'll make that much in a year.
> - So that the tech press reports a number that sounds bigger and better than the monthly amount. For example, calling a startup a "$100 million ARR" company ([like vibe-coding platform Lovable](https://techcrunch.com/2025/07/23/eight-months-in-swedish-unicorn-lovable-crosses-the-100m-arr-milestone/?ref=wheresyoured.at)) sounds way better than calling them an "$8.3 million a month company," in part because the number is smaller, and in part because, I imagine, it might mislead a reader into believing that's what they've made every month. Yes, saying the ARR figure does that already.
> - So that investors will believe the company looks bigger and more successful than it is.
>
> In any case, I want to be clear this is a standard metric in non-public Software-as-a-Service (SaaS) businesses. Nothing is inherently wrong with the _metric,_ save for its _use_ and what's being interpreted from it.