### 2025-05-29
#### The Inverse Catfish Method
[What's The Opposite Of Catfishing?](https://jessicadefino.substack.com/p/inverse-catfish-method-online-dating) #beauty #gender #relationships

> Allow me to introduce my signature online dating move: the Inverse Catfish Method.
> 
> Back when I was on the apps, I’d upload slightly _un_flattering photos of myself — an up-close, no-makeup selfie; a wide shot in a muumuu the size of a small circus tent — in an effort to meet men who weren’t primarily interested in looks. Bonus: In person, I exceeded all expectations! I’ve found love two, maybe even three times this way (the last one stuck) despite the fact that my skin, like yours, is marked by acne scars, visible pores and a smattering of old chicken pox pits (plus the burgeoning wrinkles of a woman ten years your senior).
> 
> If this makes me seem like I have some neurotic need to diminish myself before a man does it first, well… guilty as charged. After reading your question, Not A Catfish, I’d say we have this in common.

#### AI and Automation
[Pluralistic: AI turns Amazon coders into Amazon warehouse workers (27 May 2025) – Pluralistic: Daily links from Cory Doctorow](https://pluralistic.net/2025/05/27/rancid-vibe-coding/) #ai #automation

Honestly the whole piece is worth reading -- it goes into the history of the Luddite movement, AI assisted coding, worker's rights etc

> This is what makes investors and bosses slobber so hard for AI – a "productivity" boost that arises from taking away the bargaining power of workers so that they can be made to labor under worse conditions for less money. The efficiency gains of automation aren't just about using fewer workers to achieve the same output – it's about the fact that the workers you fire in this process can be used as a threat against the remaining workers: "Do your job and shut up or I'll fire you and give your job to one of your former colleagues who's now on the breadline."

> So there are two stories about automation and labor: in the dominant narrative, workers are afraid of the automation that delivers benefits to all of us, stand in the way of progress, and get steamrollered for their own good, as well as ours. In the other narrative, workers are glad to have boring and dangerous parts of their work automated away and happy to produce more high-quality goods and services, and stand ready to assess and plan the rollout of new tools, and when workers object to automation, it's because they see automation being used to crush them and worsen the outputs they care _about_, at the expense of the customers they care _for_.

> As has been the case since the Industrial Revolution, the project of automation isn't just about increasing productivity, it's about weakening labor power as a prelude to lowering quality. Take what's happened to the news industry, where mass layoffs are being offset by AI tools.

> …consumers and workers are class allies in the automation wars. The point of using automation to weaken labor isn't just cheaper products – it's cheaper, _defective_ products, inflicted on the unsuspecting and defenseless public who are no longer protected by workers' professionalism and pride in their jobs.

Love the description of centaurs vs reverse-centaur

> In modern automation/labor theory, this debate is framed in terms of "centaurs" (humans who are assisted by technology) and "reverse-centaurs" (humans who are conscripted to assist technology):
> 
> [https://pluralistic.net/2023/04/12/algorithmic-wage-discrimination/#fishers-of-men](https://pluralistic.net/2023/04/12/algorithmic-wage-discrimination/#fishers-of-men)
> 
> There are plenty of workers who are excited at the thought of using AI tools to relieve them of some drudgework. To the extent that these workers have power over their bosses and their working conditions, that excitement might well be justified. I hear a lot from programmers who work on their own projects about how nice it is to have a kind of hypertrophied macro system that can generate and tweak little automated tools on the fly so the humans can focus on the real, chewy challenges. Those workers are the centaurs, and it's no wonder that they're excited about improved tooling.
> 
> But the reverse-centaur version is a lot darker. The reverse-centaur coder is an assistant _to_ the AI, charged with being a "human in the loop" who reviews the material that the AI produces. This is a pretty terrible job to have.

and an astute observation on the potentially waning power of the tech worker

> Tech bosses tormented these workers but pampered their coders. That wasn't out of any sentimental attachment to tech workers. Rather, tech bosses were _afraid_ of tech workers, because tech workers possess a rare set of skills that can be harnessed by tech firms to produce _gigantic_ returns. Tech workers have historically been princes of labor, able to command high salaries and deferential treatment from their bosses (think of the amazing tech "campus" perks), because their scarcity gave them power.
> 
> It's easy to predict how tech bosses would treat tech workers if they could get away with it – just look how they treat workers they aren't afraid of. Just like the textile mill owners of the Industrial Revolution, the thing that excites tech bosses about AI is the possibility of cutting off a group of powerful workers at the knees. After all, it took more than a century for strong labor unions to match the power that the pre-Industrial Revolution guilds had. If AI can crush the power of tech workers, it might buy tech bosses a century of free rein to shift value from their workforce to their investors, while also doing away with pesky Tron-pilled workers who believe they have a moral obligation to "fight for the user."
> 
> …
> 
> When techies describe their experience of AI, it sometimes sounds like they're describing two completely different realities – and that's because they _are_. For workers with power and control, automation turns them into centaurs, who get to use AI tools to improve their work-lives. For workers whose power is waning, AI is a tool for reverse-centaurism, an electronic whip that pushes them to work at superhuman speeds. And when they fail, these workers become "moral crumple zones," absorbing the blame for the defective products their bosses pushed out in order to goose profits.
>
> As ever, what a technology _does_ pales in comparison to who it does it _for_ and who it does it _to_.

#### On the Origin of Wealth
[On the Origin of Wealth - by Rob Kurzban - Living Fossils](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/on-the-origin-of-wealth) #wealth #beliefs

> We reset to the pre-fire days. A traveling guru arrives. Both charismatic and mischievous, he convinces the village that a comet will destroy the world in one week. Panic sets in. No one wants seed corn, let alone shovels anymore—what’s the point of planting if there’s no future? The farmer with the seed corn can’t get anyone to trade with him, making his seed useless. In fact, he stops bothering to protect his corn. Same for the shovel-maker. He can’t even give them away. Some people in the village who happened to have food around can still eat, but many people in the village have nothing left of value to trade. They are poorer. Now, the comet isn’t real. But the value—the _wealth_—disappears anyway. Even though the stuff is still there.
> 
> Now imagine the opposite: the comet is real. Hurtling toward Earth. But this time, no one knows. People go about their lives, bartering, farming, planning next year’s harvest. The value stays intact—right up to the fiery end.
> 
> From these hypotheticals, we see that while stuff matters, just as in the cases of [power](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/the-power-of-bandwagoning), [property rights](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/property-rights-are-psychological?r=25qltc), and [groups](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/property-rights-part-ii-groups-are?r=25qltc), the **real hard candy shell of wealth is** _**beliefs**_. The _actual_ comet doesn’t destroy wealth until it arrives, but beliefs about the _fictional_ comet blew up the economy.

#### AI Hype
[Don’t Believe the AI Hype by Daron Acemoglu - Project Syndicate](https://www.project-syndicate.org/commentary/ai-productivity-boom-forecasts-countered-by-theory-and-data-by-daron-acemoglu-2024-05)

First the AI Snake Oil guys and now this.