### 2025-03-03
#### Erotic Writing
[Erotic writing is becoming more explicit](https://www.economist.com/culture/2025/02/27/erotic-writing-is-becoming-more-explicit) #erotica #books #literature 

> But eroticism is changing. Open “Onyx Storm”, the latest [romantasy](https://www.economist.com/culture/2024/04/26/romantasy-brings-dragons-and-eroticism-together-at-last) book (a genre that blends romance and fantasy) by Rebecca Yarros, and things are rather clearer. Hardy perennials are out. Words like “hard” are in—as too are words including “cock”, “fuck” and “straddle”. And people are buying it. Sales of erotica are booming: thanks to pre-orders, “Onyx Storm” had already been on Amazon’s bestseller list for 19 weeks by the time it was published in January. After release, it shifted almost 3m copies in a week. It sold faster than any novel in America in the past 20 years.
> 
> There is now a vast variety of erotica available, including cosy erotica (knitwear is torn off), Austen erotica ([Mr Darcy](https://www.economist.com/the-world-ahead/2024/11/19/jane-austen-still-universally-acknowledged-at-250) has assets even more impressive than £10,000 a year) and fairy erotica. There is even erotica featuring—readers may wish to brace themselves—physicists. These titles contain such explicit lines as, “Your dissertation on liquid crystals’ static distortions in biaxial nematics was brilliant, Elsie.”

> What has driven this is new digital formats, such as audiobooks. (Ms Yarros and Ms Maas dominate those charts, too.) The e-book has been especially consequential. It is discreet—no one can see what you are reading on a tablet. And it lets authors self-publish cheaply, as Ms James did in 2011 with “Fifty Shades of Grey”, a story of sadomasochism. It was later republished by Vintage, but romance lovers retained the habit of reading books digitally.
>
> Authorial autonomy online means it is “impossible to police” what goes into books, says Hal Gladfelder of the University of Manchester. The ubiquity of internet [porn](https://www.economist.com/united-states/2025/01/15/should-you-have-to-prove-your-age-before-watching-porn)[ography](https://www.economist.com/united-states/2025/01/15/should-you-have-to-prove-your-age-before-watching-porn) means that even to try to do so would feel “ridiculous”.
>
> In one sense this new generation of erotic prose is more realistic than what came before. Floral analogies are out; proper body parts are in. But in another sense, it is not remotely realistic. Everyone is gorgeous; names like “Xaden” and “Aetos” dominate; most characters have remarkable powers, if not superpowers.

#### Crypto Bailout By Trump
[Issue 78 – President on brink of bailout for bitcoin](https://www.citationneeded.news/issue-78/) #crypto 

From Molly White's latest newsletter.

> And although many still describe bitcoin as “digital gold”, believing that it should serve as a hedge against economic turmoil in similar ways as some people view actual gold, bitcoin and other crypto assets are once again demonstrating that they are among some of the first assets to decline among broader economic uncertainty. With looming tariffs by the Trump administration against Canada, Mexico, and China, concerns from the Federal Reserve about those and other policies’ impacts on inflation, and continuing wobbles in the labor market, people are selling off risky assets like crypto in hopes of better weathering the economic storm on the horizon. The comparatively new bitcoin ETFs set new records for the highest single-day outflows on February 25, with investors withdrawing more than $1 billion in total from the eleven ETFs.[3](https://www.citationneeded.news/issue-78/#reference-3)
> 
> Seeming to respond to the panicked pleas from the cryptocurrency industry, Trump rescued bitcoin from its below-$80,000 slide in a Sunday Truth Social post reiterating his plans for a “U.S. Crypto Reserve”, which he added would contain “XRP \[Ripple\], SOL \[Solana\], and ADA \[Cardano\]”. Further panic from bitcoin maximalists likely prompted his quick addendum two hours later that “And, obviously, BTC and ETH, as other valuable Cryptocurrencies, will be the heart of the Reserve. I also love Bitcoin and Ethereum!” Nice save.[4](https://www.citationneeded.news/issue-78/#reference-4)

#### Why I don’t feel threatened as a software engineer
[Why I don’t feel threatened as a software engineer](https://simonwillison.net/2025/Mar/2/accessibility-and-gen-ai/#not-a-threat) #llm #software #programming 

> My perspective on this as a developer who’s been using these systems on a daily basis for a couple of years now is that I find that they enhance my value. I am so much more competent and capable as a developer because I’ve got these tools assisting me. I can write code in dozens of new programming languages that I never learned before.
> 
> But I still get to benefit from my 20 years of experience.
> 
> Take somebody off the street who’s never written any code before and ask them to build an iPhone app with ChatGPT. They are going to run into so many pitfalls, because programming isn’t just about can you write code—it’s about thinking through the problems, understanding what’s possible and what’s not, understanding how to QA, what good code is, having good taste.
> 
> There’s so much depth to what we do as software engineers.
> 
> I’ve said before that generative AI probably gives me like two to five times productivity boost on the part of my job that involves typing code into a laptop. But that’s only 10 percent of what I do. As a software engineer, most of my time isn’t actually spent with the typing of the code. It’s all of those other activities.
> 
> The AI systems help with those other activities, too. They can help me think through architectural decisions and research library options and so on. But I still have to have that agency to understand what I’m doing.
> 
> So as a software engineer, I don’t feel threatened. My most optimistic view of this is that the cost of developing software goes down because an engineer like myself can be more ambitious, can take on more things. As a result, demand for software goes up—because if you’re a company that previously would never have dreamed of building a custom CRM for your industry because it would have taken 20 engineers a year before you got any results... If it now takes four engineers three months to get results, maybe you’re in the market for software engineers now that you weren’t before.

####  Are we all severed
[Are we all severed? \| Dazed](https://www.dazeddigital.com/film-tv/article/66237/1/are-we-all-severed-severance-suffering-trauma-a-real-pain) #severance #tv #culture #work 

This article started with _Severance_ but went to many places

> _Severance_ is often described as a dystopian work of science fiction, but there are stark similarities between the show’s world and our own. While it’s not possible to literally bifurcate your consciousness – [yet](https://www.dazeddigital.com/film-tv/article/65990/1/technology-in-severance-soon-become-reality-procedure-work-life-balance-science) – how many of us contain parts of our identities just to get through the day? How many of us have gone to work while depressed, brokenhearted or grieving? On a macro level: how many of us have gone to work knowing that wars, famines, and genocides are happening? Arguably, under late capitalism – which prioritises work over all else – we’re all kind of severed.
> 
> It’s partly a psychological survival strategy; compartmentalisation is a very common trauma response. Our brains can only handle so much. But it’s fair to say we feel considerable pressure to compartmentalise in the first place because society isn’t structured in a way which allows people to look at trauma head-on. Why is it that Mark must return to work _three weeks_ after Gemma’s death_,_ when a steady return to normal functioning after a bereavement can typically take [two or more years](https://books.google.co.uk/books?hl=en&lr=&id=AEiRDwAAQBAJ&oi=fnd&pg=PT7&dq=The+other+side+of+sadness+Bonanno&ots=TxwGl9PMCE&sig=BvhnYX4GRHnjFBtv0KyJlGSqMpk#v=onepage&q=The%20other%20side%20of%20sadness%20Bonanno&f=false)? The need for him to be productive and _keep working_ is so urgent, so imperative, that he allows his employer to stick a microchip in his brain. But _Severance_ does not condone severance: Lumon uses the innies’ ignorance to exploit them in a number of innovatively cruel and evil ways. Instead, it emphatically skewers the ridiculousness of modern life, where productivity (and appearing sane) always takes precedence over personal pain.

#### NoteGPT
[NoteGPT - AI Summarizer and Generator for Enhanced Learning](https://notegpt.io/) #tools #ai 

Useful suite of tools to perform a lot of AI assisted tasks like transcription, summary generation etc.

#### Men and Close Friendships
[Too many men lack close friendships. What’s holding them back? \| Psyche Ideas](https://psyche.co/ideas/too-many-men-lack-close-friendships-whats-holding-them-back) #friendship #masculinity #culture 

> **High-quality, close friendships involve intimacy,** the fragile closeness born of risking ourselves and being met with acceptance and belonging. This kind of closeness can evade men in environments that operate on norms of indifference or active hostility towards expressing what is happening in their inner worlds.

> Alao, 33, a Nigerian gay man, put it more bluntly: ‘Straight men have a lot to learn from us.’ For him, the casual tenderness and care often seen in same-gender male relationships shouldn’t be confined to the queer community. Trans men echoed this perspective, drawing from their unique vantage point of navigating masculinity while remembering their previous girlhoods or womanhoods. ‘As a man with a girlhood, I’m confident in expressing vulnerable needs,’ said Liam, 28, a graduate student in New Jersey. He added that friendships with cisgender men often feel like ‘a step down in intimacy’. These relationships could be richer, he believes, if cisgender men risked sharing their own ‘vulnerable needs’, and also learned how to meet that need in others.

> We have, as a society, always demanded bravery from men. But so many are still lost when it comes to the bravery that close relationships demand.

#### Reading - Switching from Paper to Screens
[What does switching from paper to screens mean for how we read? | Psyche Ideas](https://psyche.co/ideas/what-does-switching-from-paper-to-screens-mean-for-how-we-read) #reading #screen

> Reading is so commonplace that it’s hard to appreciate how much of a challenge it poses to the human brain. As you read this sentence, you’re using the visual forms of words to access their meanings and pronunciations from memory, and then using this information, and the neural systems that evolved for spoken language, to construct larger units of meaning: phrases, sentences and extended discourse. Reading is a relatively recent cultural invention; our brain did not evolve to read. Only after years of education and practice do people learn to coordinate the brain systems needed to support skilled reading. This process is inherently difficult, as [evidenced](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/1529100618772271) by the fact that a significant proportion of people struggle to attain reading proficiency despite having normal intelligence and opportunities for education.

> One of these findings is the _screen inferiority effect_. As its name suggests, this effect refers to demonstrations that – with all else being equal – a text that is read on a digital screen will be less well understood than the same text if it is read on paper. If you’re reading this article online, for example, your understanding of its content may (at least to some degree) be compromised. After reading the article, you might be able to accurately answer questions about its gist, but not necessarily be able to report the details as well as if you had read it on paper. The effect has been documented across different languages and writing systems, indicating that it is robust.
>
> Some studies, however, have provided evidence that the size of this effect is influenced by a number of variables. **One of these [variables](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1747938X18300101) is the nature of the text**: the comprehension of narrative texts (in which readers become immersed in a story) seems to be less affected by how the text is displayed, compared with the comprehension of expository texts. So, if you’re engaged in an interesting novel, as opposed to studying a textbook, your grasp of the text will likely be less influenced by whether it’s on a screen or in print form. **Another important variable is the amount of [time](https://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pmc/articles/PMC7463273/) available to read**, with the screen inferiority effect being larger when readers are under pressure to read rapidly. If you have to read something very quickly, you’d probably be better off reading it in print. There is some [evidence](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1041608021000121) that reading skill is an important variable, too, with the screen inferiority effect being more pronounced for less skilled readers.