### 2025-05-04
#### Field Guide to AI Assisted Communication
[You Sent the Message. But Did You Write It?](https://davidduncan.substack.com/p/you-sent-the-message-but-did-you) #ai #communication #slang

> Last week, I got a message from someone I’ve known for ten years. It was articulate, thoughtful…and definitely not written by him.
> 
> It’s one example of what has increasingly unsettled me about the way people interact - myself included - as we all participate in this vast, unprecedented, AI-enhanced communication experiment.



> That’s when it dawned on me: we don’t have a vocabulary for this.
> 
> We’re surrounded by AI-shaped communication—but we’re still talking about it like everything is normal.
> 
> So I started writing down the weirdness. And it turned into a glossary.
> 
> Here are ten terms offered to help name, diagnose, and spark reflection on the strange new ways we communicate in the age of AI:

The terms listed are: 
1. Chatjacking
2. Prasting
3. Prompt ponging
4. AI’m a Writer Now (aka Sudden Scribe Syndrome)
5. Promptosis
6. Subpromptual
7. GPTMI
8. Chatcident
9. GPTune
10. Syntherity

#### Why are big companies so slow
[Why are big tech companies so slow? | sean goedecke](https://www.seangoedecke.com/difficulty-in-big-tech/) 

> Big tech companies spend a lot of time and money building things that a single, motivated engineer could build in a weekend. This fact puzzles a lot of people who don’t work in big tech. Often those people share theories about why this is true:
> 
> 1. Big tech engineers are incompetent and unproductive, and big tech routinely wastes billions of dollars in salary on bad hires
> 2. Big tech companies use processes, like Agile, that are so inherently inefficient as to slow down work by 100x for no good reason
> 3. Big tech engineers are lazy and are stealing time from their employers
> 4. Big tech companies are dominated by coordination problems that sap much of the value of each extra engineer
> 5. Big tech operates at web scale, so comparing weekend features to big tech features is like comparing a diecast toy car to a Ferrari


> Why are big tech companies slow? Because they’ve packed in as many features as possible in order to make more money, and the interaction of existing features adds an unimaginable amount of cognitive load. Some hackers are revolted by this, because they love simple tools that do one thing well. That’s a fair reaction. But don’t let your revulsion fool you into thinking that big tech companies are full of stupid people.
> 
> Capturing value at the margin is really difficult to do well. That’s why big tech pays big tech salaries for it!