### 2025-06-17
#### Adults TV Show
[What can we learn from TV shows about friendship? \| Dazed](https://www.dazeddigital.com/film-tv/article/66946/1/what-can-we-learn-tv-shows-friendship-adults-friends-new-girl-capitalism) #tv #adults #friendship 

> In the last episode of FX’s new comedy series _Adults_, which follows a group of friends in their twenties, Paul Baker (Jack Innanen) gets a letter from the US government notifying him that his visa is expiring and that he must leave the US and go back to Canada. His friends, Samir (Malik Elassal), Billie (Lucy Freyer), Anton (Owen Thiele) and his girlfriend Issa (Amita Rao), who he lives with, are devastated. To ensure he can stay in the country, Issa asks him to marry her, to which he gratefully, but also begrudgingly, agrees. 
>
> While the journey to get there is _incredibly_ convoluted, they eventually arrive at the courthouse to wed. However, before they’re about to get married, Issa gets cold feet, telling Billie that marrying Paul is different from when she jokingly married her ex-friend Zack-Carlos because her marriage to Paul would be real. To Paul’s surprise, Billie walks down the aisle in Issa’s place, telling Paul that Issa isn’t ready to marry him but that they do not want to lose him and that she will marry him instead. This results in the entire friendship group arguing as they all volunteer to marry their Canadian friend. To end the bickering, Issa rejoins the group at the altar, apologising and professing to Paul: “We all love you. We just want you to stay. So, literally, any of us would marry you. Paul Baker, you choose. What do you want?”

#### Manifest Cheating
[Can you really ‘manifest cheating’ in a relationship? \| Dazed](https://www.dazeddigital.com/life-culture/article/67031/1/can-you-really-manifest-cheating-in-a-relationship-tiktok-wizard-liz) #dating #cheating #manifest

> At the end of our five-year relationship, my ex suggested that it was my concerns around his loyalty that caused him to cheat in our relationship. In other words, I thought his infidelity into existence (or manifested it). It’s a concept I initially rolled my eyes at, then forgot about entirely, until recently, when [The Wizard Liz](https://www.instagram.com/thewizardliz/?hl=en) revealed online that she’d been cheated on while pregnant by YouTuber [Landon Nickerson](https://www.instagram.com/landn/?hl=en). As a lifestyle influencer and manifestation coach, The Wizard Liz, whose real name is Lize Dzjabrailova, being cheated on has since set the internet into a spin – even the women who dedicate their lives to embodying “divine femininity” aren’t spared from the deeply painful but unfortunately common experience of infidelity. So, what does the spiritually-charged message that you can “manifest cheating” in your relationship do for how we think about modern relationships? 
>
> As more young people move away from traditional religions and, in turn, seek answers in alternative spirituality, it should come as little surprise that New Age practices like manifestation have found their way into dating culture. According to [Todd Baratz](https://www.instagram.com/yourdiagnonsense/?hl=en), a certified sex therapist and relationship expert, concepts like twin flames, divine feminine and masculine energy and practices like astrology are now deeply shaping how many young people understand relationships. “These frameworks offer fresh, new and beneficial language, comfort, and a sense of control in uncertain emotional terrain, but they also can turn love into a performance or a projection,” he says. “Instead of building relational skills – like communication, conflict repair, or emotional availability – people are using spiritual frameworks to bypass hard conversations or justify toxic dynamics.”

#### How Societies Morph With the Seasons
[What Foragers Teach Us about Seasons and Social Change](https://www.sapiens.org/biology/foragers-seasonality-social-change-flexibility-societies/)

> As an evolutionary anthropologist working with the BaYaka, I initially presumed people simply adjusted because of the seasonal availability of different foods. But their changes extended way beyond sustenance into the realms of politics, economics, rituals, and relationships.
> 
> These shifts starkly contrast with my own homes in the U.K. and Spain, countries seemingly locked into fixed sociopolitical and economic orders. BaYaka flexibility made me rethink my assumptions about what is “natural” for human societies, including gender roles, hierarchies, and social group sizes.
> 
> And the more expansively I looked, I realized BaYaka flexibility isn’t the anomaly: The rigidity of industrialized, capitalist societies is. Across history and geography, societies have restructured their sociopolitical and economic lives in response to seasonal shifts—and perhaps not solely due to fluctuating resources. People may also do so because they recognize the dangers of stagnation.
> 
> As I see it, regular restructuring keeps communities adaptable and resilient. Solving today’s greatest challenges—inequality, authoritarianism, the climate crisis—may require embracing this flexibility as part of the fabric of our societies.


> And the BaYaka aren’t unique in their cyclical shifts. The 20th-century French anthropologist Claude Lévi-Strauss documented seasonal transformations [among the Nambikwara](https://www.jstor.org/stable/643959?seq=3), an Indigenous Amazonian group whose territory today lies in central Brazil. For five months each year, according to Lévi-Strauss, they inhabited large villages, tending small gardens for food. When the dry season began, they dispersed into smaller, mobile foraging groups. These shifts also ushered a reversal of political authority. During the dry season, leaders became authoritative decision-makers, resolving conflicts directly. When the rains returned, the same leaders no longer held coercive power. They could only attempt to influence through tactics like gentle persuasion or caring for the sick.
>
> Similarly, at the turn of the 20th century, anthropologist [Franz Boas observed](https://archive.org/details/kwakiutlethnogra0000boas/page/442/mode/2up) that inequality peaked during the winter among the Kwakiutl, or [Kwakwa̱ka̱ʼwakw](https://umistapotlatch.ca/intro-eng.php), a First Nations people along the Pacific Coast of what is now Canada. Boas wrote about Kwakwa̱ka̱ʼwakw winter villages with strict hierarchies and grand ceremonial events. In summer, these rigid structures dissolved as communities broke into smaller, more flexible groups. And rather than people doing this subconsciously solely to adapt to the weather, they were so aware of the political nature of their practices that individuals even changed names when they adopted new [social positions for winter ceremonies](https://www.mpm.edu/research-collections/anthropology/online-collections-research/kwakiutl/cosmology-ceremonial-life).
>
> Meanwhile, in my home countries and many others today, institutions seem immutable, changing only during revolutions, coups, or wars.

> These cases flip the usual narrative. Instead of assuming that hierarchy is the prize of complexity, these sites suggest not all monumental architecture required a ruling class. For much of human history, societies didn’t follow a single political trajectory—they shifted between different modes of organization, much like the BaYaka do today.
> 
> Recognizing humanity’s long tradition of social fluidity puts the present into perspective: The “Western world” is not the culmination of a 10,000-year-long march but an anomaly in a 300,000-year-long history of _Homo sapiens_’ cultural adaptability.