### 2025-11-28
Breaking the long hiatus brought about by work travel, illness etc.

#### Oliver Burkeman on Interestingness
[The Imperfectionist: Interest is everything](https://ckarchive.com/b/92uzhnh695dods3roomrdfzod7d33hwh9nk2g)

> Perhaps the reason the idea of an “interesting” life feels like a cop-out – compared to, say, a wildly successful or influential or joyful one – is that it lacks any sense of domination or conquest. We want to feel as though we were handed the challenge of a human lifetime and that we _nailed_ it, that we grappled with the problem and solved it. Whereas to follow the lead of interestingness is to accept that life isn’t a problem to be solved, but an experience to be had. And that engaging with it as fully as possible, connecting to the [aliveness](https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/lmu0d85lk8umhnrxl8li6h8kvqv00igh84p72/58hvh7hg79054ou6/aHR0cHM6Ly9ja2FyY2hpdmUuY29tL2Ivemx1Z2huaGs4NzcybWE3cXJyOXFlaHd6Z25nMDBmNg==), is its ultimate point.

> …“There’s a specific exhaustion,” [observes](https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/lmu0d85lk8umhnrxl8li6h8kvqv00igh84p72/25h2hoh3dog7qec3/aHR0cHM6Ly93d3cud29ya2luZ3RoZW9yeXMuY29tL3AvdGhlLWNyYWZ0LWRpcGEtaGFsZGVy) the artist Dipa Halder, “that comes from constantly shape-shifting to fit what you think people want. I call it type 2 burnout. You’re not overworked, you’re just working against your own grain.”…

This is a very insightful point about AI

> And by the way: I don’t think it’s a coincidence that _interestingness_ is the very thing I feel falling away whenever I discover, or begin to suspect, that something I’m reading or watching was generated by artificial intelligence. It might continue to be impressive, or informative, but the flame that kept me fascinated sputters and dies. Which speaks to my point about the pursuit of your interests sparking the interest of others: once I realize the person who created the work wasn’t sufficiently interested to engage with it every step of the way, I can’t summon interest in the result, either. (And the AI certainly wasn’t interested in what it was producing; if there’s one human quality definitively lacking in an LLM, it’s the capacity to be interested in anything at all.)