### 2025-07-13
[What I could have learnt from René Girard](https://on.ft.com/4kBEfTw) #mimetic #culture

> René Girard might have found metaphorical use for this. The French theorist’s great idea was that religion and culture grow out of what he called mimetic rivalry. Human beings, uniquely, choose the objects of their desire largely on the basis of what other people desire. “There is nothing, or next to nothing, in human behaviour that is not learned, and all learning is based on imitation,” he writes. But while mimesis helps us learn, it also leads to escalating competition, and ultimately violence. Religion evolved as a means for containing rivalry by projecting communal violence on to an arbitrarily chosen sacrificial victim, the scapegoat.

> As always happens when an intellectual becomes popular, distortions have followed. The main problem, though, is not misinterpretation. It’s omission. What is often left out of discussions of Girard is the most challenging part of his theory, about how we break the cycle. Here he turns to one of the firmest messages of the gospels: the injunction to love our enemies. Girard knew, as we all know, that renunciation and mercy are almost impossibly hard, and quite alien to human culture. Yet he argues that it is the moments when the mimetic crisis has reached a hysterical crescendo, when “the vanity and stupidity of violence have never been more obvious”, that it is possible to see our enemies in a new way. Might we not be living in such a moment right now?

#### Extraction vs Creation
[From Dollar Dominance to the Slop Machine - by kyla scanlon](https://kyla.substack.com/p/from-dollar-dominance-to-the-slop) #economics 

> The US _has_ become an extraction economy.
> 
> - We extract value from our existing position through dollar dominance, military supremacy, and technological leadership and now are choosing to tear down the foundations that created that position in the first place.
> - We extract attention through spectacle without creating the trust that makes spectacle meaningful.
> - We extract wealth from our own institutions without replenishing the capacity that generated that wealth.
> - The UFC image captures this well - it takes the symbolic power of American institutions and converts it into entertainment value, with no consideration for what that conversion costs us in terms of credibility or coherence.
> 
> China, meanwhile, has become a creation economy[1](https://kyla.substack.com/p/from-dollar-dominance-to-the-slop#footnote-1-167101876).
> 
> - They're building electrical generation capacity, training engineers, developing industrial policy that spans decades.
> - They're creating an “[electrostate](https://cleantechnica.com/2025/05/26/china-is-the-worlds-first-electrostate/)” with an economy driven by the technologies that will determine 21st-century competitive advantage.

#### Immigration Policy of the Danish left
[Denmark’s left defied the consensus on migration. Has it worked?](https://www.economist.com/europe/2025/07/10/denmarks-left-defied-the-consensus-on-migration-has-it-worked)  #denmark #immigration

> These are uncomfortable facts, so much so that to point them out is to invite the disgust of European polite society. Whether in France, Germany, Italy or Sweden, parties of the hard right have surged as they—and often only they, alas—persuaded voters that they grasped the costs of mass migration. But the National Rally of Marine Le Pen in France and Giorgia Meloni’s post-fascist Brothers of Italy have an unexpected ally: Denmark’s Social Democrats, led by the prime minister, Mette Frederiksen. The very same party that helped shape the Scandinavian kingdom’s cradle-to-grave welfare system has for the past decade copy-pasted the ideas of populists at the other end of the political spectrum. Denmark is a generally well-run place, its social and economic policies often held up for other Europeans to emulate. Will harsh migration rhetoric be the next “Danish model” to go continental?

> The Danish left’s case for toughness is that migration’s costs fall overwhelmingly on the poor. Yes, having Turks, Poles or Syrians settle outside Copenhagen is great for the well-off, who need nannies and plumbers, and for businesses seeking cheap labour. But what about lower-class Danes in distant suburbs whose children must study alongside new arrivals who don’t speak the language, or whose cultures’ religious and gender norms seem backward in Denmark? Adding too many newcomers, the argument goes—especially those with “different values”, code for Muslims—challenges the cohesion that underpins the welfare state.

> The upshot of the left’s hardline turn on migration has been to neutralise the hard right. Once all but extinct, it is still only fifth in the polls these days, far from its scores in the rest of Europe. For good reason, some might argue: why should voters plump for xenophobes when centrists will deliver much the same policies without the stigma? Either way, that has allowed Ms Frederiksen to deliver lots of progressive policies, such as earlier retirement for blue-collar workers, as well as unflinching support for Ukraine. The 47-year-old is one of few social-democratic leaders left in office in Europe, and is expected to continue past elections next year.