### 2026-05-11
#### Emoji Guide
[Welcome to emoji school](https://www.economist.com/business/2026/03/26/welcome-to-emoji-school)

this is actually a great guide.

> _I don’t know whether it’s appropriate to use the heart emoji at work. Am I implying that I am in love with the person?_
> 
> Great question. It depends on whether you are using a reaction emoji (that’s the small one that attaches to a specific message), which is clearly a response to what has just been said. If you send a heart emoji as a reply on its own, you are basically proposing.
> 
> _I told my boss that I would not be at work one week because I was suffering from amoebic dysentery. I then got a notification that she liked my message. I’ve lost half my body weight and she’s apparently taking pleasure in my misfortune._
>
> If you do a thumbs-up reaction emoji on some platforms, it tells the other person that you “liked“ their message. Your boss should have written back but she was probably acknowledging your message rather than rejoicing in it. Some Gen Zers regard thumbs-up emojis as a bit frosty, by the way. This is why.
> 
> …
> 
> _A few of my colleagues put a palm tree by their names on Slack. I know it means that they care about the climate. I’d like to show my commitment to the planet, too, but cannot find the emoji. Can you help?_
>
> Where’s that thinking emoji?

#### Celebrity Book Clubs
[Many celebrities now have book clubs. Most are irritating](https://www.economist.com/culture/2026/05/07/many-celebrities-now-have-book-clubs-most-are-irritating)

> Ms Lipa is a British pop star. She is also an increasingly popular literary critic, thanks to her book-club podcast, in which she interviews authors. But Ms Lipa does not have a splinter of ice in her heart. She has something much lovelier. She loves books (“I love books”). She loves storytelling (“I love storytelling”). She loves Helen Garner, an Australian novelist (“I fell in love with you”). She loves Margaret Atwood’s biography (“I loved it. I love it. I love it so much”).

> Book clubs are changing. A hobby that was once dull, domestic and faintly frumpy has had a glow-up. Now, anyone who is anyone—and, given the nature of modern celebrity, plenty of people who are almost no one—has a book club, whether podcast, website, YouTube channel or newsletter. Reese Witherspoon, an actor and producer, has a book club. (She is its “book-lover-in-chief”.) Gwyneth Paltrow had a book club as part of her lifestyle brand, Goop. (“Crime and Punishment”, Ms Paltrow declared, is one of her “all-time favourite novels”.) Kaia Gerber, a model, has one with the perplexing aim of “building up our community of rage readers”.

> Book clubs, it is true, can be irritating. They are also a little paradoxical. Reading rates are [declining rapidly](https://www.economist.com/culture/2025/09/04/is-the-decline-of-reading-making-politics-dumber), everywhere. Yet there are podcasts about reading, campaigns about reading and handwringing books about reading. The public seems simultaneously unable to start reading—or to stop banging on about it. Perhaps, instead of listening to people talk about books, you should enjoy books the old-fashioned way. Sit down. Open a book. And silently enjoy it. 


#### AI Didn't Kill Programming, You Did
[AI Didn't Kill Programming, You Did](https://learncodethehardway.com/blog/39-ai-didnt-kill-programming-you-did/)

> Wrong. AI didn't kill programming. _You_ killed programming decades ago by stripping it of all individuality and curiosity to satisfy the whims of giant corporations. You created universities that taught only one language and trained programmers to never think of programming as personal expression. You turned programming into a sterile profession who's only purpose is making other people money. You even went so far as to hunt down and threaten anyone who dared to disagree with you. You threatened their jobs, their reputations, and their mental health over petty bullshit like an [underscore in a variable name](https://go.dev/doc/effective_go#mixed-caps).
> 
> You worked extremely hard to frame programming as only a profession that serves corporations, and made sure anyone who threatened the great corporations was shut down, ridiculed, humiliated, and fired. So everyone fell in line, made only projects for corporations, and talked only about how they could best serve corporations. Even when they tried to fight back against the corporate mindset they [came up with a movement that's still about corporate efficiency](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=tD5NrevFtbU).
> 
> Congratulations bootlickers, you got what you wanted. A boring soulless profession with no originality and a total focus on what corporations want with no regard for individualism and free expression. "Everyone should code exactly the same like good little robots." That's you, bootlicker.