### 2026-04-15
#### Shitty Flow and Zombie Flow
[Pluralistic: In praise of (some) compartmentalization (14 Apr 2026) – Pluralistic: Daily links from Cory Doctorow](https://pluralistic.net/2026/04/14/compartment/)

> Wu says it's a mistake to attribute the regretted hours of scrolling to addiction or a failure of self-control. Rather, the user is falling into "passive flow," a condition arising from three factors:
> 
> I. Engagement without a clear goal;
> 
> II. A loss of self-awareness – of your body and your mental state;
> 
> III. Losing track of time.
> 
> I instantly recognize II. and III. – they're the hallmarks of the flow states that abstract me away from my own pain when I'm working. The big difference here is I. – I go to work with the clearest of goals, while "passive flow" is undirected (Thompson also cites psychologist Paul Bloom, who calls the scroll-trance "shitty flow." In shitty flow, you lose track of the world and its sensations – but in a way that you later regret.)
> 
> Thompson has his own name for this phenomenon of algorithmically induced, regret-inducing flow: he calls it "zombie flow." It's flow that "recapitulates the goal of flow while evacuating the purpose."
> 
> Zombie flow is "progress without pleasure" – it's frictionless, and so it gives us nothing except that sense of the world going away, and when it stops, the world is still there. The trick is to find a way of compartmentalizing that rewards attention with some kind of productive residue that you can look back on with pride and pleasure.


#### Books on Loneliness
[Why loneliness, a recurring theme in literature, is difficult to comprehend](https://www.thehindu.com/books/why-loneliness-a-recurring-theme-in-literature-is-difficult-to-comprehend/article70838331.ece?pnespid=rLhsVCFEaaFHwv7LuTKuT8uFoxSpSoQsL_Ky3OY59g1mkjpekuWqxHqHhqwktNan_cvxecxApg)

Books covered:
- The Lonely City by Olivia Laing
- The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny by Kiran Desai
- Eleanor Oliphant Is Completely Fine by Gail Honeyman

> The philosophical and personal narrative by British author Olivia Laing in _The Lonely City: Adventures in the Art of Being Alone_ draws from the time she lived in New York. She writes, “Loneliness is difficult to confess; difficult too to categorise. Like depression, a state with which it often intersects, it can run deep in the fabric of a person.” We immediately get a sense of what to expect — an analysis of where loneliness stems from and its consequences, which linger in one’s mental health and very existence.

> Kiran Desai’s _The Loneliness of Sonia and Sunny_ explores the many layers of loneliness through fictional characters. The Booker-shortlisted novel traces the journeys of two individuals, Sonia and Sunny, negotiating distance, displacement, and belonging. Yet, this is not an entirely bleak story. Desai, who won the Man Booker Prize for _The Inheritance of Loss_, weaves in moments of hope as her character Sonia embarks on a path of self-reflection and discovery.

> While some narratives trace loneliness with philosophical distance, others plunge into its most unsettling depths, as Gail Honeyman does in _Eleanor Oliphant Is Completely Fine_.
> 
> Loneliness is not always contemplative — sometimes it is isolating, corrosive, and dangerously silent. The novel begins on a bleak note. Eleanor Oliphant, a socially awkward and isolated woman living in Glasgow and working a routine office job, insists she is “completely fine.”
>
> Yet beneath the rigid routines and solitary weekends lies a deep, unaddressed loneliness. Over time, she slowly finds her footing. As the author reminds us, “It is never too late, for any of us.” It is a poignant and joyful message.

