### 2026-04-10
#### Barista Judgemental Glare
[Brooklyn Coffee Shop Episode 55: Kumail Nanjiani, Barista Training Expert 🪪☕️ - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/shorts/0-6gCkxRja8) 

I was at a coffee shop in Berlin today and the barista messed up my order by pouring somebody else's order into my reusable cup and handing it to them. When I pointed it out to the barista, he had this look about him which reminded me of this episode of Brooklyn Coffee Shop.

The transcript is reproduced in full below.

> Hey guys, it's that time of the year again. I'm here for your hipster barista assessment.
> 
> No one says hipster anymore.
> 
> You've passed the first test. Nobody says the h word anymore.
> 
> I'm sorry. Who are you?
> 
> How do you not remember me? I'm Kumail Nanjiani, h word barista expert.
> 
> Wow, your aura is like completely different this year. I didn't even recognize you.
> 
> Yeah, something seems off. You seem very emotionally regulated.
> 
> Oh yeah, I've been on a healing journey. I started therapy.
> 
> Therapy? I thought it was a requirement for all Brooklyn baristas to be chaotic and unhinged.
> 
> I've been avoiding therapy for years for my craft.
> 
> Yeah, that's a big update we're doing to 2026. Now, we want all baristas to go through therapy so that your rudeness comes from a place of creativity rather than trauma. As you know, you need a high score to keep operating a coffee shop in Brooklyn. First, let's see your judgmental glare.
> 
> Okay, it's a little dead behind the eyes. I need a bit more boredom, a little more disdain. Like, you looked at me and you already know I'm the problem. More like Mhm. Mhm. Judgmental glare 8 out of 10.
> 
> Not. Seriously,we're known in Brooklyn for our judgmental glare.
> 
> You were there for a moment.
> 
> We have at least 10,000 negative Google reviews about it.
> 
> You think 10,000's a lot? All right, let's talk about reading. What are we perusing these days?
> 
> Only books on Marxism and existential thought.
> 
> Marxism is so played out. It's so old. I mean, look at your mayor. My mom is into Marxism. She's got a little Marx bumper sticker on her Subaru. Now all the cool baristas have circled back around to loving capitalism.
> 
> But I spent my entire adult life blaming all my problems on capitalism.
> 
> I would shift that blame right over to taxes.
> 
> As a fourth generation Gatsby, I can do that.
> 
> That's right. Rich is cool again, guys.
> 
> All right, let's hear your self-sabotage initiatives to keep customers away.
> 
> We've been playing with insults. Usually three to four per customer.
> 
> Sometimes we post to our Instagram story that we're suddenly closing and then we stay here just so that we can turn people away.
> 
> We never have what people order even though it's on the menu.
> 
> Oh god.
> 
> When we're in a bad mood, we triple our prices and that is often.
> 
> You guys are nailing it right there. All right, let's talk about what are your milk options right now.
> 
> Oh, so today we have cacti, water, buffalo, avocado seed, and potato milk.
> 
> Trick question. We're all post milk now. You haven't heard of milk fatigue?
> 
> The milk is getting fatigued?
> 
> We are tired of milk.
> 
> No milk made in the house.
> 
> How can milk get tired? Milk don't be alive. We're now in our post milk era. I always knew this day would come.
> 
> Okay, I have tallied up your scores. You're a B+. Dang it.
> 
> I promise next year we'll be even more unapproachable.
> 
> Yeah, we'll go to therapy so we can weaponize wellness even more.
> 
> B+ is actually the highest score you can get.
> 
> I knew it.
> 
> We do that just to keep people grounded.
> 
> All right, you guys can attend my new workshop. It's called Healing for Baristas. How to calm yourself while flustering others. I will save you two spots
