### 2026-03-04
#### Brainrot is a radical act
[brainrot is a radical act - by Adam Aleksic](https://etymology.substack.com/p/brainrot-is-a-radical-act) #language #social-media 

> I’m sitting in a Buddhist temple, listening to monks chant the Heart Sutra. _Gate gate pāragate pārasaṃgate bodhi svāhā. Gate gate pāragate pārasaṃgate bodhi svāhā. Gate gate pāragate pārasaṃgate bodhi svāhā._ The words technically have a meaning, but I find myself carried away by the rhythm instead. The mantra washes over me, connecting me to the present moment.
> 
> I’m scrolling on Twitter, seeing the same words show up in every post. _Clavicular. Jestermaxxing. Framemogging. Clavicular. Jestermaxxing. Framemogging. Clavicular. Jestermaxxing. Framemogging._ These terms also have a definition, but in practice they’re only funny because they’re funny.
> 
> Incel brainrot might not be the path to enlightenment, but there is an important connection between these examples. Any time we repeat a word too much, we become desensitized to its meaning. This phenomenon, called [semantic satiation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Semantic_satiation), causes us to attend to _form_ over _content_. All that matters is how we experience an utterance.

> The Heart Sutra teaches that “form is emptiness, emptiness is form.” There is no fixed interpretation of language, but it is precisely _in_ its unfixedness that language reveals its meaning. The beauty of semantic satiation is that it destroys the “containers” of denotation. Instead of using words to connect to something else, we connect to the words themselves—revealing that it was all form, and none of it.