### 2026-05-25
#### The Job Search has become a humiliation ritual
[The Job Search has become a humiliation ritual](https://archive.ph/cs6Qn)

> AI tools appear to be on the rise on both sides of the job search, creating uncanny automations like getting a rejection email message 40 seconds after submitting a labor-intensive application. It has grown easier than ever for a person to apply, in a desultory, semi-automated way, to a job, whether by having Claude write their cover letters or hitting EasyApply on LinkedIn, which means that within 24 hours any job posting online might already have 100 applicants. LinkedIn reports applications went up 45 percent annually, averaging 11,000 a minute. Employers, overwhelmed, returned fire with their own automations. The result: a maelstrom of AI-powered résumé screening, chatbots for early interviews, gamified skills tests, and unconventional-to-jarring behavioral interview modes that are trying to control for the likelihood that a candidate is typing prompts into Claude or ChatGPT to cheat through the interview.

> Many of the people I spoke to about their job searches are office workers and would be considered part of or on track for the PMC, or professional-managerial class. Their jobs have historically been often better-paid and relatively shielded from poor working conditions. But now, the promise of upward mobility and identity through a job is starting, slowly, to dissolve, leaving a generation of laptop workers confronting a new, hostile economic and cultural landscape.
> 
> We’ve long been sold the idea of work as identity, purpose, and social mobility. So what happens if the machine breaks down? When people are doing everything “right” — networking, optimizing, trawling LinkedIn — and still hearing nothing back? What does it feel like to search for employment now, to swim against the current in the sea of American insecurity?

> “I will _certainly_ not get a job I don’t apply to,” David notes wryly. “I will _almost certainly_ not get a job I do apply to. And that ‘almost’ is why I keep applying. It’s like going to services for a religion I don’t believe in. It’s a ritual.”

> Large cohorts of economically stranded young people have been fertile ground for radical solidarity movements and reactionary politics alike. That’s not hopecore, just historical comprehension. The Gilded Age, the Depression, the waves of deindustrialization in the late 20th century — each period produced its own hybrid of worker despair and immiseration, followed by reform and reinvention. The worker gains of the 20th century — including unions, Social Security, civil-service protections, and the weekend — were all wrested into being by people who refused to see themselves as failures in isolation and instead recognized themselves as part of a mass that were being failed. It is fashionable among elites now to frame the majority of people as “NPCs,” or non-player characters, in the parlance of video games: unthinking, sheeplike, atomized automatons. But deny a vast multitude what they need for long enough and you’d be surprised at how many decide to play.

#### Midlife Crisis–ing in the End-times
[Midlife Crisis–ing in the End-times](http://archive.today/qnEjz)

> Older millennials now have less money and more problems than ever before. Basically, we’re in retrograde

> This time around, I have almost 20 years of experience in my field. I have a diverse set of skills and I’ve even written a book, _Life After Ambition_, which was published this year and became a national best seller in Canada where I live. And yet, like so many of my friends right now, I am out here applying for (and [being rejected by) random content jobs](https://archive.ph/o/qnEjz/https://www.thecut.com/article/job-search-unemployment-stories.html) at places that won’t exist in a year. We’re midlife millennials, now in our mid-30s and early 40s, still spinning in circles like we had to do in the early aughts, during 9/11, the ensuing wars in Afghanistan, or the 2008 financial crash — retrograde, let’s call it — only today we have kids or pets or mortgages or aging parents or all of the above.
> 
> Even during that horrible year of job searching in my early 20s, I truly believed things would work themselves out. Now I’m scared for the future in a way I have never really been. Between AI, climate change, and ongoing social, political, and financial global chaos, and the fact that every single thing a human being needs to be comfortably alive now costs twice (at least) as much as it used to, I don’t see things getting better. The best we can hope is that they don’t get worse.

> I talked to writer Rainesford Stauffer, who covers work and affordability and has talked to people on all sides of this issue about why things are so bad and what’s next. I asked her if things really are as bad as they feel. “Based on what I’m hearing from millennial and Gen-Z workers, it feels like a really horrific time to be finding a job, be in a job and try to navigate the rest of your life alongside that job,” she says. She’s talked to people who are mid-career who are competing for jobs alongside workers who are a lot younger, “who employers in turn can offer lower compensation because they have less experience.” Plus you get workers in their 40s who feel pressure to [“age-proof”](https://archive.ph/o/qnEjz/https://fortune.com/2026/02/07/millennial-jobseekers-hiring-younger-resumes-experience-age-discrimination/) their résumés so that they appear younger, now nervous about discrimination as well as exploitation. We’re still too young to get ahead and increasingly too old to be competitive with our younger colleagues.