### 2026-01-30
#### Grindcore
[Grindcore is the new hustle culture](https://www.ft.com/content/d0b7aafa-8498-4554-8bd9-e8a56e136096?emailId=20e2aaff-35a6-4aec-abb2-c44643a8aff1&segmentId=9b32601b-2a45-d285-7b17-588dabaf81a5) #technology #work #culture 

> In Silicon Valley, long hours have fused with a monastic male wellness aesthetic

> But the “grindcore” lifestyle has taken on fresh intensity against the backdrop of a frantic San Francisco AI arms race, and growing anxiety among AI labs that a rival — or worse, China — might be the first to achieve AI supremacy.
  
> It is not just tech bosses pushing the trend. Founders and engineers are jumping at the chance to broadcast how hard they are toiling. In September, dozens took to social media to announce their participation in what was dubbed the “great lock-in” of 2025 — in other words, spending the final three months of the year rejecting work-life balance to produce their most valuable labour yet.
> 
> Intriguingly for a world known for its badly dressed nerds, this narrative has been fused with a monastic male wellness aesthetic.
> 
> Instead of downtime enjoying the Californian sun and surf, grindcore adherents should fill the remainder of their day with workouts, Paleo diets and Chinese peptides. Many are embracing “manosphere” culture propagated by Maga-adjacent influencers that preaches antifeminism ideals and physiognomy. 
> 
>“The current vibe is no drinking, no drugs, 9-9-6 [working from 9am to 9pm, six days a week], lift heavy, run far, marry early, track sleep, eat steak and eggs,” Daksh Gupta, the 23-year-old co-founder of an AI start-up, told the San Francisco Standard recently.

	