### 2026-05-23
#### Reading Gap Relationships
[Help! My boyfriend doesn’t read](https://www.dazeddigital.com/life-culture/article/70301/1/can-you-survive-a-reading-gap-relationship-boyfriend-doesnt-read)

> They’ve now been broken up for over a year, and while there were many reasons for the split, April attributes at least some of it to the reading gap. “I remember feeling really lonely at times because I would be excited by something I was reading, and I was just never able to have conversations about it with him,” she recalls.

TIL 👇🏽  women read books and men listen to podcasts (fwiw, I do BOTH, and quite extensively as to - so where does that leave me I wonder 🤷🏽‍♂️😂!)

> Whether it’s through restrictive gender norms or marketing by the book publishing industry, we have, over time, been conditioned to think of reading for pleasure as a feminine hobby. Even when it comes to non-fiction, which men have typically preferred, they’re getting their information elsewhere: men aged between 25 and 34 now make up [the largest audience](https://www.limelightdigital.co.uk/podcast-statistics/) for podcasts. With the reading gap between men and women continuing to widen, it’s not surprising that reading gap couples exist. But how much should these gaps actually matter in dating, and does a literary mismatch really have to be a dealbreaker?

#### Exercise Addiction
[For some exercisers, a healthy habit spins out of control](https://psyche.co/ideas/for-some-exercisers-a-healthy-habit-spins-out-of-control)

many such cases

> The unhealthy pattern commonly described as exercise addiction (or exercise dependence) can begin unremarkably enough. At first, a person might decide to run just a little more or lift a little heavier. The exercise routine steadies them emotionally. Someone with anxiety, for example, might start adding an extra 20 minutes to their training sessions and feel immediate relief. The routine becomes the anchor that holds the day in place. But over time, the anchor grows heavier. The workouts start to be seen as the only reliable way to manage emotions, stress and frustrations. Tension builds, training provides relief. The routine hardens.
>
> Typically, someone who has developed an exercise addiction plans their life around their workouts. They might wake before dawn to train because the idea of missing a session feels intolerable. Taking a rest day, usually a welcome pause, breeds irritation or guilt. The run or bike ride starts to feel like an obligation that must be met to regain a sense of equilibrium. A major motivation to exercise becomes avoiding withdrawal symptoms – such as irritability, disturbed sleeping patterns, or anxiety – that one experiences without it.
>
> Eventually, compulsive exercise can have adverse effects on a person’s physical, psychological and social wellbeing. The runner who keeps adding ‘just a few more kilometres’ may find himself treating minor injuries and fractures that never quite heal. The teen who doubles up on gym sessions could struggle with persistent fatigue. Other compulsive exercisers might frequently decline social invitations that interfere with their routine, frustrating friends and family. The exercise routine can reshape and shrink the rest of someone’s life.