### 2026-06-26
#### Capitalism vs Markets
[The Craft of Capitalism](https://www.asomo.co/p/the-craft-of-capitalism)

If I had a penny for everytime I have argued with (both socialist left wing and libertarian right wing) folks about the difference between capitalism and markets

> **Within mainstream economics** and politics, ‘capitalism’ is often spoken of as if it were simply the _presence of markets_, but markets long precede capitalism. Markets are social spaces where people engage in tit-for-tat reciprocal exchange - _I’ll do X if you do Y_ - but this mode of behaviour was traditionally mixed with many other modes. When you encounter a vibrant street market in the Peruvian Andes, full of local villagers selling roots and herbs, it does not scream ‘CAPITALISM!’ at you, whereas a mall full of mass-produced corporate products really does.
> 
> The reason for this is that old traditional markets are rife with all sorts of ‘non-commercial’ logics, with people hanging out or lingering in each other’s stalls to catch up on gossip, and young people flirting, and old men playing chess on the side ranting about politics. These are holistic, integrated spaces, where the ‘economic’, ‘social’, ‘cultural’, and ‘political’ realm are all entangled, rather than siloed off from each other.
> 
> Moreover, the type of community who uses an old-school market is also woven together with forms of _informal reciprocity_. This is a term we use in anthropology to talk about webs of obligations that play out over time. Rather than ‘I’ll do X now if you do Y now’, informal reciprocity is more like “I’ll sort of do something a bit like X in a year’s time if you maybe kinda do Y in a couple weeks”. Informal reciprocity is a style of exchange, but it’s implicit rather than explicit, unmeasured rather than measured, and unenforced and deferred rather than immediate. This means it _feels_ very different to ‘cold’ formal exchange. It’s the kind of thing we associate with _community_.
> 
> Finally, the oldest markets historically formed around the edges of society, rather than forming the centre. For example, feudal society had market towns, but the central defining logic of the overall economy was based on agricultural land. Similarly, ancient tribal societies could certainly engage in trade, but that was often peripheral to their clan systems, kinship structures and traditional pastoralism or horticulture.
 
> Capitalism, by contrast, is a state of being in which breaking even is seen, ultimately, as a failure. It is a system in which everything _above_ the break-even point - profit - is elevated in an attempt to accumulate power in the social web. It often does take place within the market, but the ultimate end goal would not be to maintain a web of egalitarian reciprocity. No, it would be to transform the Peruvian street market into a space dominated by oligarchs who have _capitalized_ on their existing advantage to secure more. That’s what a mall is.
>
> A society starts to feel very ‘capitalistic’ when its resources begin to concentrate into these large nodes of power, and when a class of people who own this concentration of assets start to become gatekeepers to the survival of others. Those others must prostrate themselves asking for jobs - _the right to operate the owned assets_ _-_ so that they can get money to buy the things outputted by those very same assets.
> 
> People continue to maintain community, but the social web starts to feel like it contains a constant underlying struggle. They find themselves under pressure to compete, and to do this will increasingly strip non-commercial ethics out of the old market. This hollows it out and leaves it with a ‘pure’ market logic siloed away from other logics, which increasingly get cast as inefficient pollutants. As this is amplified, pure market logic becomes the central driving force in a society, and the end justification for _all other activity_.

#### Seemingly Insignificant Minor Interactions
[Have you heard of SIMIs?](https://thequietlife.net/p/have-you-heard-of-simis) #relationships #friendships 

> Have you ever come across the term — and concept — of SIMIs (the Seemingly Insignificant Minor Interactions of Everyday Life)?
> 
> If you’re an introvert, especially, you might not be inclined to pay much attention to these interactions. You might (as I am) be inclined to focus mostly on your deeper relationships. And I do believe that going deep, relationally, is a deeply satisfying way to live.
> 
> But I like the concept of SIMIs too - the constellation of minor interactions that round out our days. To recommend paying attention to SIMIs is not to urge us to be more social than we actually want to be; it’s more akin to stopping to notice a flower or cloud formation.

> Neuroscience studies reveal that SIMIs have the potential to shape and reshape our brains countless times. They can either strengthen existing neurocircuitry or overwrite it to create new pathways. Positive SIMIs can provide us with the opportunity to heal past adversity as new experiences overwrite the old. But negative SIMIs can further solidify past relational experiences that did not serve us then and will not serve us now or in the future. Each positive SIMI is an opportunity for neuroplastic shift, which means that the right SIMIs have the potential to alter the brain on the most fundamental molecular level — helping you attain a richer, more satisfying life.

#### Epictetus on Love and Loss
[Epictetus on Love and Loss: The Stoic Strategy for Surviving Heartbreak](https://www.themarginalian.org/2026/06/24/epictetus-love-loss/)

> Two millennia ago, the great Stoic philosopher **Epictetus** (c. 55–135 AD) argued that the antidote to this gutting grief is found not in hedging ourselves against prospective loss through artificial self-protections but, when loss does come, in orienting ourselves to it and to what preceded it differently — in training ourselves not only to accept but to embrace the temporality of all things, even those we most cherish and most wish would stretch into eternity, so that when love does vanish, we are left with the irrevocable gladness that it had entered our lives at all and animated them for the time that it did.