### 2026-04-26
#### Janteloven
[Is the Scandi ethos of Janteloven broken?](https://giftarticle.ft.com/giftarticle/actions/redeem/06ca6ba6-27ba-498b-8ae7-8576be16793c)

I have been hearing this term for a while now, and I started to pay attention to it because I work for a Danish company nowadays.

> Janteloven — or Law of Jante — is an informal, often misunderstood, set of rules taken from the satirical novel A Fugitive Crosses His Tracks (1933) by the Danish-Norwegian novelist Aksel Sandemose. The ten rules, all variations on not acting ostentatiously, were a critique of oppressive rural communities in Norway. 
> 
> In the years since, Sandemose’s fictional creation has become conflated with broader ideas of Scandinavian equality, a regional brand of solidarity and togetherness recognised around the world. Viewed positively, Janteloven can be linked to Dugnad, the Norwegian tradition of communal volunteer work in parks and schools, while a lack of overt competition lessens loneliness. But it has also been criticised for stifling innovation. And if being transparent in one’s ambitions is frowned upon, one might be tempted into shady territory.

While the article above 👆🏽 doesn't go into what the exact laws are, I found this article which does.

[What is Janteloven? The Law of Jante in Scandinavian Society](https://www.scandinaviastandard.com/what-is-janteloven-the-law-of-jante/)

According to this article:

> _Janteloven’s_ social code dictates emphasis on collective accomplishments and well-being, and disdains focus on individual achievements. It is an underlying Scandinavian philosophy principle that applies across Denmark, Norway, Sweden, Finland, and Iceland. Understanding Janteloven is paramount to understanding both the history and modern-day cultures of these countries.

The ten rules of Janteloven are:

- Don’t think you are anything special.
- Don’t think you are as good as we are.
- Don’t think you are smarter than we are.
- Don’t think you are better than we are.
- Don’t think you know more than we do.
- Don’t think you are more important than we are.
- Don’t think you are good at anything.
- Don’t laugh at us.
- Don’t think anyone cares about you.
- Don’t think you can teach us anything.

#### Random (but good) Advice from Ava
[some things I've learned about dealing with people - by Ava](https://www.avabear.xyz/p/some-things-ive-learned-about-dealing)

> Being comfortable in large groups and parties is just a learned skill. For many years, I identified as someone who was very comfortable in one-on-one settings, but unsure of how to socialize in groups. Then I started hosting more parties and events for work and realized I’d mythologized this “comfortable in small groups/comfortable in big groups” thing way too much. It’s literally just a thing you teach yourself how to do. Assume a normal and friendly affect! Talk to people sincerely and unpretentiously! Circulate! If needed, break it down into a set of procedural steps—_this is how I enter a conversation with a group of people I don’t know, this is how I leave the conversation when I’m bored_.

would love to adopt this 👆🏽

> Don’t let not texting someone back for a very long time stop you from doing the above.

> Glennon Doyle: “Your job throughout your entire life, is to disappoint as many people as it takes to avoid disappointing yourself.”