### 2026-05-14
#### There is nothing more romantic than friendship
[Are our friends the real loves of our lives?](https://www.dazeddigital.com/life-culture/article/70252/1/there-is-nothing-more-romantic-than-friendship-dating-platonic-love)

> For young women who date men – and who are [increasingly dissatisfied](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/07/21/magazine/men-heterofatalism-dating-relationships.html) with the state of heterosexual dating – romantic friendships are setting the standard for what to expect in love. Arasasingham says she and her friends have similar love languages, giving each other more thoughtful gifts than any romantic partner has. “The more I pour into your platonic relationships, the better I feel,” she says. “And the more it raises my standards for romantic relationships because I feel seen so deeply.” Feifei, a 22-year-old writer in Nigeria, says her friendships have consistently shown her what love is supposed to feel like. “There’s no hot and cold, and I don’t have to constantly prove myself worthy of basic affection,” she says. “My friends love me on my bad days, celebrate my wins without making it weird, and tell me hard truths because they actually care.”

> It is hard to measure romance, especially when what we are so often sold as romantic is wrapped up in heteronormativity. That is why even speaking about how loving some friendships feel becomes important to expanding our ideas of what is actually romantic. For Basi, it is the depth of intimacy in her friendships, and the constant knowingness that carries through all stages of life, that makes them feel more romantic than her dating life. “At the moment, dating is feeling quite transactional, and we’re all missing the realness, openness and vulnerability of relationships that’s gotten lost along the way,” she says. “If you take away physical intimacy, how much more value is your partner actually adding to your life compared to your friends?”

> To compare the romance of platonic love to romantic love would be a disservice to the unparalleled beauty of friendship, but acknowledging that romance can come from a range of places opens up a wealth of possibilities for our romantic lives. “I don't think friendship needs romance’s validation,” says Idowu. “The problem isn’t that friendships aren’t romantic enough; it's that we’ve spent so long treating romantic love as the only love that counts that we’ve underinvested in our friendships and then wondered why we feel lonely.” The remedy, according to Idowu, is simple: start taking your friendships as seriously as your romantic relationships. “I think the most radical thing you can do right now is to be a good friend,” she says.


#### Olivia Rodrigo's Dress
[If you think Olivia Rodrigo looks like a sexy baby, that’s on you](https://www.dazeddigital.com/fashion/article/70247/1/olivia-rodrigo-babydoll-dress-controversy)

I learned so much just from this one paragraph 😂

> The design itself – the babydoll dress – was not even made for children originally. It emerged in the 1940s as a way of conserving fabric during wartime rationing, and was later popularised by the 1956 film _Baby Doll_. It was later taken up in the 1990s, as a symbol of sarcastic hyper-femininity, by female rock musicians like Courtney Love and Kim Gordon as part of a trend called [Kinderwhore](https://www.dazeddigital.com/fashion/article/62252/1/90s-kinderwhore-girlcore-girl-trends-courtney-love-hole-batsheva-celine). Rodrigo has nodded to the fashion of both eras throughout her career. The outrage, then, says far more about how some people interpret her dress than about her choice to wear it.

#### Cursive's Comeback
[Cursive Club, Where Students Learn With a Flourish](https://www.nytimes.com/2026/05/11/us/cursive-clubs-students.html)

Brought back memories

> Years after it was omitted from the Common Core standards, some students are practicing cursive in clubs after school and in libraries. Some states are bringing it back to classrooms.

#### What is Linen
[All About Linen – From Flax to Fabric](https://heddels-newsletter.beehiiv.com/p/all-about-linen-from-flax-to-fabric?_bhlid=4d965929e9d690848c9b92aec55cd4622135f90d)

> **Linen** is a bast fiber, which means it comes from the inner part of the plant. In linen’s case, that’s the flax plant.

General properties:

> - One of the strongest natural textile fibers: Linen is generally stronger and more durable than cotton, making linen fabrics hard-wearing and capable of lasting for decades with proper care
> - Eco-friendly life cycle: flax typically requires less water and fewer pesticides than conventional cotton; linen is also recyclable and biodegradable
> - Soft hand: linen is often stiff or textured at first, but softens noticeably with wear and washing*
> - Structurally sound fiber: Linen garments tend to hold their shape well due to the fiber’s low elasticity
> - Launders well and can maintain color effectively when properly dyed and cared for
> - Naturally resistant to irritation and often suitable for sensitive skin
> - Naturally low-static
> - Good moisture absorbency: linen can absorb up to 20% of its weight in moisture before feeling damp**
> - Highly breathable and thermoregulating
> - Low elasticity, which contributes to both durability and wrinkling
> - Time- and labor-intensive extraction process (from plant to usable fiber)