### 2026-04-22
#### Ginsberg and Gen Z
[moloch and the machines - by Adam Aleksic](https://etymology.substack.com/p/moloch-and-the-machines)

> I saw the best minds of my generation destroyed by brainrot, gooning doomscrolling bedrotting,
> 
> dissociating themselves through the enshittified ragebait clickbait looking for a dopamine fix,
> 
> nonchalant doomers repressing the AI overview of the starry dynamo in the machinery of night,
> 
> who Kalshi and Rainbet and OnlyFans and Doordash sat up vaping in the ambient glow of slot-machine phones drowning in the depths of 4chan contemplating memes…
> 
> 
> I’m not going to rewrite any more of Allen Ginsberg’s _Howl_ because it’s already perfect. It’s impossible to [read the poem](https://www.poetryfoundation.org/poems/49303/howl) without extending it to yourself and your cultural moment. We’ve all been crushed by the oppressive machinations of conformity and consumerism. What can we do but lash out in creative fury, impaling ourselves on the palisades of modernity?


#### Banoffee Pie
[Why we’re all going bananas for banoffee pie](https://www.ft.com/content/9f93e797-6563-4b75-abaf-0e588e2d4f48)

It's been surprisingly hard to find Banoffee pie, since I moved to Berlin. Even in Bengaluru, they were not that easy to find. The one place where I found it a lot was New Delhi.

> Banoffee pie has long been a staple of home cooks, bakeries and diners. The version at Bubby’s in New York, for instance, is legendary. But with a return to comfort and familiarity in modern dining, it fits perfectly on upscale restaurant menus too. “It’s playful, nostalgic and a bit messy in the best way,” says Hawksmoor co-founder Huw Gott. “A cheeky dessert you can be sure will sell,” says Booton.  
> 
> The banoffee pie was invented in 1971 by Ian Dowding, chef at The Hungry Monk restaurant in Jevington, East Sussex. It was inspired by a San Franciscan recipe known as Blum’s coffee toffee pie but using a soft toffee made from dulce de leche, condensed milk that has been boiled in the can for several hours. “Apple was quite good, mandarin was downright disgusting,” wrote Dowding of his experiments with fruit. “But the day we made it with a layer of banana, I knew I had cracked it.” He finished the pie with coffee-flavoured whipped cream made ’70s-style with instant coffee granules.  
> 
> As baker Philip Khoury puts it, banoffee pie is a “juvenile pleasure” – he means that approvingly – based on the understanding that banana and caramel just work. But how you choose to make yours depends on your tolerance for sugar. Though whipped cream and fresh bananas are meant to ease the sweetness, Dowding considered his recipe “far too rich”. In his new book Elevate, MasterChef champion Brin Pirathapan proposes an even sweeter banoffee meringue pie made with caramelised bananas and Italian meringue that “is not for the fainthearted”.