### 2026-04-23
#### Anxiety
[The Meaning of Anxiety \| A Working Library](https://aworkinglibrary.com/reading/meaning-of-anxiety) #books #mentalhealth 

> Rollo May refutes the assertion that mental health is living _without_ anxiety, proposing instead that anxiety is a necessary condition for creativity, intellect, and freedom. He defines anxiety as the “experience of Being affirming itself against Nonbeing,” as that which propels us to more self-awareness, consciousness, and life. He likewise shows that the refusal to embrace this anxiety, to attend to it and work with it and through it, is an invitation to authoritarianism and fascism. When we lack the skills of being with our anxiety, and feel our only option is to flee, we often flee right into the hands of a strongman who promises security at the cost of liberty. May wrote during the height of fascism in the last century; we read it during the renewal of the same in this one. The lessons hold.

this is such a great quote from the book being talked about

> > It is to be expected that certain “mechanisms of escape” from the situation of isolation and anxiety should have developed. The mechanism most frequently employed in our culture, [Erich] Fromm believes, is that of _automation conformity._ An individual “adopts entirely the kind of personality offered to him [_sic_] by cultural patterns; and he therefore becomes exactly as all others are and as they expect him to be.” This conformity proceeds on the assumption that the “person who gives up his individual self and becomes an automaton, identical with millions of other automatons around him, need not feel alone and anxious any more.”


> This is the trap anxiety lays for us: in our effort to escape it, we run further into its jaws. But perhaps there are yet alternatives. May connects that impulse to escape with the experience of isolation: can we become less isolated without becoming automatons? Can we find community not in the center, but on the outskirts, among the weirdos and the outsiders, the people who never seem to fit in, who are always playing a different game? There are fewer of them, by definition, but not so few that we cannot find them. We won’t find the comfort of the majority among them, of course—but as we have seen, that comfort is mere illusion—but perhaps we can find the community and camaraderie that is so necessary for our survival, and without giving up our precious selves to get it.

#### Matt Levine on the SpaceX IPO and the Cursor acquisition
[There’s No Time for SpaceX to Buy Cursor - Bloomberg](https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/newsletters/2026-04-22/there-s-no-time-for-spacex-to-buy-cursor?accessToken=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJzb3VyY2UiOiJTdWJzY3JpYmVyR2lmdGVkQXJ0aWNsZSIsImlhdCI6MTc3NjkzMjQwNCwiZXhwIjoxNzc3NTM3MjA0LCJhcnRpY2xlSWQiOiJURFdRRjFLR1pBSzYwMCIsImJjb25uZWN0SWQiOiI5QTg2QjY3RUZGOUE0OTA4OThBNjY4ODIwNTZGMDNFQiJ9.l_ANBr2KidI3tmlmGboOw5B9OavtNx92alkvy_WfU2k)

I havent been setting aside time to read Matt Levine's newsletter often enough. But this one is gold

> Part of what you are getting, when you invest in Elon Musk’s Whole Thing, is exposure to his _restlessness_. SpaceX was a company founded on the principle that it would be cool to shoot rockets into space. Musk still believes that, but in the years since SpaceX’s founding he has added many more visions — brain implants, tunnels, artificial superintelligence, data centers, exposing millions of people to his online comedy stylings and political opinions — to his portfolio. (Also he runs a car company.) SpaceX combines many (not all!) of those visions, but today’s portfolio of SpaceX businesses is to some extent accidental. Today I can describe SpaceX as a “satellite internet, rocket launch, space data center, Mars colonization, frontier AI model and social media company,” but it will be somewhat shocking if I can use the same list in April 2027. In 2027 most of those things will still be on the list, but something else, something that would never have occurred to me, will be occupying much of Musk’s and SpaceX’s time and attention. “Humanity’s survival depends on ______,” Musk will say, about this surprising new thing, “and SpaceX is pivoting all of the computing power in its space data centers to solve it.” Space data centers!
> 
> Musk’s restlessness fits right in to a vibes-based, dream-selling IPO: He can show up at the roadshow in June and be like “by this time next year the space data centers will be made out of a previously undiscovered element that we will acquire from aliens,” and investors will be like “oh man is he ever selling the dream.” If you’re investing in Musk you _want_ novelty; if the roadshow was just like “satellite internet is a good steady business” you would be disappointed and would not pay 100 times revenue for the stock.

> But the IPO! There’s an IPO! In like two months! It’s bad enough that the SpaceX IPO became [Also The xAI And Twitter IPO](https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/newsletters/2026-02-03/musk-s-moonshot-merger) _in February_, but making it also the Cursor IPO _now_ is too much. There is no _time_ to acquire Cursor before the IPO.
> 
> So it will have to wait. “Cursor has also given SpaceX the right to acquire Cursor later this year for $60 billion or pay $10 billion for our work together,” SpaceX’s tweet says. Bloomberg reports:
> 
> > SpaceX isn’t acquiring Cursor immediately because of the rocket company’s imminent initial public offering, according to a person familiar with the matter, who asked not to be identified discussing nonpublic information. A major transaction would require SpaceX to update its filings and financial details, potentially delaying the IPO, which is targeting a $2 trillion valuation. The $10 billion is a breakup fee if the deal doesn’t go through, according to people with knowledge of the deal.
> 
> I would put it a bit differently: The $10 billion is _option premium_, giving SpaceX the right, but not the obligation, to acquire Cursor “later this year,” after the IPO stuff has calmed down. Because SpaceX doesn’t own Cursor, or even have a binding agreement to acquire it, the IPO prospectus probably does not have to get into too much detail on Cursor’s business or finances or how they would combine with SpaceX’s.
> 
> The SpaceX IPO prospectus will be a historical document, capturing Elon Musk’s Whole Thing at a specific moment in time, but everyone understands that, moments later, things will change. Cursor is part of that “moments later” bucket: Everyone has fair warning that, after the IPO, SpaceX will also be Cursor.

> Of course Musk does change his mind a lot. It would be very funny if he sours on Cursor by July and walks away from the deal, and they make $10 billion for three months’ work. I guess that’s another reason not to spend much time on Cursor in the prospectus.

#### Ibram X Kendi
[Ibram X. Kendi’s illiberal views on race are out of favour. Good](https://www.economist.com/culture/2026/04/23/ibram-x-kendis-illiberal-views-on-race-are-out-of-favour-good)

> Anyone who has regularly talked of “cultural appropriation” or “safe spaces” probably owns a book by Ibram X. Kendi. He became one of the American left’s favourite thinkers on race, having written five number-one bestsellers and won the National Book Award. His best-known title, “How to Be an Antiracist”, claims there is no such thing as “not racist”: at every moment, a person is either being racist (by supporting or failing to challenge policies that sustain racial inequity) or antiracist (when they do the opposite).

> This is an insult masquerading as a description, and it is more likely to harden opposition than to change minds. This intolerant streak was visible in earlier work. “The heartbeat of racism is denial,” Mr Kendi wrote. To object to his Manichean view of race relations, then, is to out yourself as a bigot.

> That is a telling goal. Mr Kendi is not a serious policy thinker: he is a religious writer for secular lefties. “How to Be an Antiracist” features original sin (racism), public repentance (“the heartbeat of antiracism is confession”) and eternal struggle (“the movement from racist to antiracist is always ongoing”). This sin must be expiated, not accepted or compromised with. The world is divided into the damned, who disagree with him, and the saved, who accept his proposals _in toto_.
> 
> That suited progressives when they believed Donald Trump was an aberration, and all they had to do to banish Trumpism was cancel bad people and drag politics leftward. But that had a limit, as the election in 2024 showed. Some progressives have come to realise that they have “annoyed the average American into fascism” as Marc Maron, a comedian, sardonically put it. The lukewarm reception for this book is also telling. Google Trends suggests Mr Kendi has attracted less than one-tenth the attention this year as in 2020.x