### 2026-04-30
#### This Japanese art of breaking from routine
[This Japanese art of breaking from routine will do wonders for your mind, on cherishing life and more](https://postanly.substack.com/p/this-japanese-art-of-breaking-from)

> Life is meant to be experienced, not endured.
> 
> If everything feels predictable or mechanical, I wake myself up with awe or an element of surprise. I give myself a break from monotony to bring wonder back. And keep life from becoming stagnant.
> 
> The Japanese call it _datsuzoku._
> 
> Datsu means “to escape”, “to flee” and zoku can be translated as “routine” or “convention”. It’s a practice of breaking out of routine, “escaping from the usual” or “stepping outside the ordinary.” Also of freeing yourself from patterns that take away that “alive” feeling of being human.
> 
> Datsuzoku is all about surprise.
> 
> Freedom from the usual. The kind of break that shocks you into awareness. It’s not just unwinding; it’s reconnecting with a side of life that’s alive, unpredictable. Breaking patterns keeps the mind alert and excited.

#### Investing
[The Robots Make the Predictions - Bloomberg](https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/newsletters/2026-04-28/the-robots-make-the-predictions?utm_source=website&utm_medium=share&utm_campaign=copy)

> I [wrote last week](https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/newsletters/2026-04-21/private-markets-charge-more?srnd=undefined) that, in investing, “There’s no magic, no dark matter, no other source of gains. Everyone’s gains come from (1) economic growth and (2) other people’s losses.” In the aggregate, everyone gets the market return, which comes from allocating capital to economic growth. Some people get more and others get less, but they necessarily cancel each other out. People invest anyway, though, because allocating capital to economic growth is a good long-term proposition.
> 
> Prediction markets don’t have that. People put $1 into a prediction market event contract, and at resolution it pays out $1 to the winner. There is no investment in economic growth, no source of long-term returns; everyone’s winnings come from someone else’s losses.