### 2026-04-05
#### Walter Benjamin Biography
[Walter Benjamin — Peter E Gordon’s vivid pearl of a biography](https://giftarticle.ft.com/giftarticle/actions/redeem/a0d2d5ff-d017-4023-9b43-0bf6974cb564)

> “Just to sit once more on the terrace of a café and twiddle my thumbs,” wrote the great German-Jewish critic and philosopher Walter Benjamin to a friend in 1939, “that’s all I wish for.”

#### Kyla Scanlon
This prelude from Kyla Scanlon's latest newsletter took me completely by surprise. I have often wondered about (and occasionally been envious) how people like and others that I admire can be so prolific. And then you come across the flip side of it

> I have to go on an elimination diet because my gut is eating itself and that apparently is also destroying my thyroid because I am not absorbing any nutrients. In order to address this, I have to stop eating wheat, dairy, corn, egg, tomato, peanuts, coffee, soy, cacao, sugar and manyotherthings (this is not like a juice cleanse or something fun, it’s something I have to do to stop my body from attacking itself). I have to write down what I do eat and how I am feeling and then evaluate from there as to what I can eat in the future.
> 
> If there was a quick fix - say an injection - I would try to take it. I don’t KNOW what’s happening to me, I just know that I got lots of vials of blood drawn and the miracle of modern science has informed me that some things are not going very well.
> 
> But, funnily enough, part of the problem is that I took shortcuts. I traveled [40 out of the 52 weeks last year](https://kyla.substack.com/p/30-days-9-cities-1-question-where) (a lot for me) and some days, I would just subsist on granola bars and about 14 cups of coffee. I would also run and work a lot and sleep very little because I was totally and completely invincible. After all, I was an optimization machine.
> 
> And for a time, I sure was. But then, I wasn’t. Turns out, I wasn’t really optimizing anything, I just was avoiding what I actually should have been doing like sleeping. What I needed was to stop adding things and start figuring out what was making me sick. That's the opposite of what we've been sold.

From: [The Ozempicization of Everything - by kyla scanlon](https://kyla.substack.com/p/the-ozempicization-of-the-economy) #health #overwork

Anyway back to the focus on the newsletter

> Naturally, industries have formed to monetize this nihlism through promising solutions. But the solutions never arrive, because the nihilism, the giving up, must persist in order for these products to survive. [It’s a version of Ivan Illich’s Limits to Medicine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Limits_to_Medicine), where he argues that the medical establishment itself produces illness by making people dependent on professional intervention rather than building health. That effect carries across all these optimization tools, creating dependency on the fix rather than addressing the cause. The optimization economy can't deliver control, because the desperation is the market condition, and the pursuit of control through optimization is itself a loss of control.

> The shift from railways to [peptides](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=W0ltbBby9FU) is the shift from “we built this for everyone” to “you can buy this for yourself.”

> What we have is the Ozempic optimization of everything - Ozempicization, if you will. We have a suite of magic shots now in the form of peptides and everything else that address effort and discomfort and complexity. Everything can be optimized. Everything can be controlled.

> It’s revealing that Silicon Valley’s word of the moment is ‘_agency_’ as it dresses up that desire for control. Optimization is the process, control is the desite, and agency is the branding. It’s not clear what agency means in startup land (similar to other words often used, like [taste](https://www.newyorker.com/culture/infinite-scroll/why-tech-bros-are-now-obsessed-with-taste)) but it does hint at someone who will force the universe to bend to their will, one way or another[3](https://kyla.substack.com/p/the-ozempicization-of-the-economy#footnote-3-190545005).

and the article I logged just over a month ago (2 Mar) makes an appearance again! 😊

> Cluely is a company that embraced this wholeheartedly, the final boss of the hustler economy. Their original ethos was cheating (they have since pivoted into AI notetaking) and they have raised millions and millions of dollars[4](https://kyla.substack.com/p/the-ozempicization-of-the-economy#footnote-4-190545005). For them, “scamming” was being “agentic” which is indeed the “hottest commodity in Silicon Valley” as Sam Kriss wrote in his piece [Child’s Play:](https://harpers.org/archive/2026/03/childs-play-sam-kriss-ai-startup-roy-lee/)
> 
> The future will belong to people with a very specific combination of personality traits and psychosexual neuroses. An AI might be able to code faster than you, but there is one advantage that humans still have. It’s called _agency,_ or being _highly agentic._ The highly agentic are people who _just do things._
> 
> And they _are_ just doing things, driven by ([understandable](https://www.forbes.com/sites/kolawolesamueladebayo/2026/02/21/dario-amodei-doubled-down-on-his-ai-jobs-warning-heres-whats-different-now/)) fears of the permanent underclass and becoming useless in the age of AI. Apparently, the way that you avoid both of those is by “constantly chasing attention online.”

Then there is a [whole section](https://kyla.substack.com/i/190545005/iv-the-manosphere-as-a-case-study) on The Manosphere which is too long to quote, but worth reading in full.

and this bit makes me feel called out 😂 (although tbf I am not monitoring the daily news or vibe-coded dashboards.)

> We tend to seek control in every facet of our lives, including information consumption. Amanda Mull wrote a brilliant article about “monitoring the situation” - people (clearly, like me) who get glued to their screens trying to piece things together. And there is a lot to sort through: war, a government partially shut down, erratic fiscal policy, weak labor market, high prices, etc. It’s soothing to go to places like Twitter and read the OSINT feeds and to feel like you’re… informed. As Mull [searingly writes](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2026-03-23/iran-war-epstein-files-betting-markets-why-we-re-monitoring-the-situation?accessToken=eyJhbGciOiJIUzI1NiIsInR5cCI6IkpXVCJ9.eyJzb3VyY2UiOiJTdWJzY3JpYmVyR2lmdGVkQXJ0aWNsZSIsImlhdCI6MTc3NDI3MjY0NiwiZXhwIjoxNzc0ODc3NDQ2LCJhcnRpY2xlSWQiOiJUQ0NKUzZLSVVRQkswMCIsImJjb25uZWN0SWQiOiI3MDQyN0U3REVGMkM0MDEzODNCNDUzRjAyNUE2NDc3NyJ9.yD0wi_MGJSUhvavqGVbjToDZgkF5SWEdhD72NvY9HyQ):
> 
> If you can dial in your feeds’ algorithms just right, maybe you can bear a type of witness so complete it feels like participation, or **maybe even control.** After all, there’s decent evidence that the people launching the bombs are monitoring some of the same feeds you are.