### 2026-05-15
#### Brooklyn Coffee Shop and Berlin
[bkcoffeeshop - Episode 81: Normal Berliner visits the shop featuring @lau_ramoso)](https://www.instagram.com/reels/DYXYFJHNm0u/)

As a former New Yorker and now Berliner, this episode hit so hard!

> *Berliner* Hello. This place looks nice. 
> *Thyme* How are you? Are you, like, visiting from somewhere? 
> *Berliner* I'm actually on vacation from Berlin.
> *Thyme* Berlin. Berlin. We love Berlin. I'm about to go on a three week silent techno retreat there.
> *Cale* My eight year situationship, Capricorn, lives there. Great.
> *Thyme* So what can I get you? Maybe, like, an accidentally vegan unsweetened barley latte?
> *Cale* Or we can spit in your mouth or slap you in the face for an extra $30? A lot of Berliners ask for that.
> *Berliner* Actually, a plain drip coffee would be good.
> *Thyme* Oh, so like a minimalist approach, like a palate cleanser. I get it. 
> *Cale* You're so lucky you live in Berlin. Who are your fave local artists? I need to know.
> *Berliner* Oh, you know, I really have been listening to Sabrina Carpenter lately.
> *Cale* The new metal German DJ, the one that spells the name with only fours and fives?
> *Berliner* No. It's the one that goes thinking about me every time oh, that's that me espresso. Oh, I mean, that's a really catchy song.
> *Cale* Have you heard that song? I don't know that song.
> *Thyme* I don't know that song.
> *Berliner* No. Oh, I brought my own mug.
> *Thyme*  I love Berliners. They just get it. Starbucks?
> *Cale* Ew. You're carrying that ironically. Right?
> *Berliner* No. Yeah. I actually wanted to go to a Starbucks, but could not find one around here, so I came to this place. 
> *Thyme* This has to be an artistic statement.
> *Cale* Incredible job staying in character.
> *Berliner* By the way, do you have any recommendations for things to do in the city? It's my first time in New York.
> *Cale* Of course. We have Marxist multimedia art installations, poetry nights, and acoustic listening bars.
> *Thyme* Oh, and Dry Humor is my favorite non alcoholic bar, Gemini Gemini for vintage. 
> *Berliner* So far, I'm really excited about exploring Midtown. Yeah. Because I've heard great things about the M and M store in Times Square. Oh, and I cannot wait to do the Friends experience. Yeah. I mean, I know you can tell. I am a Monica. What is the name of that street in Dumbo by the Brooklyn Bridge thing? Yeah? Because I have to get a photograph.
> *Thyme* Are you sure you're from Berlin? 
> *Berliner* Yes.
> *Cale* What are your purposes in New York City?
> *Berliner* I'm actually here for a b to b marketing conference. I work for a paint company, and we just discovered a new shade of beige.
> *Cale* That can't be your job.
> *Berliner* Yeah. In fact, the walls in here are actually looking a bit chipped. I can get you a quote.
> *Thyme* Are you at least asexual or, like, poly or something?
> *Berliner* My husband, Jan, is a consultant at Deloitte. We are high school sweethearts. He is blonde.
> *Cale* She has such little edge. She's like an infinity pool.
> *Berliner* You know, I really have had enough. You are really projecting your idea of Berlin onto me, and I have to say it's actually very culturally insensitive. You know, most Berliners are just normal Germans working hard, trying to avoid this hipster circus. 
> *Cale* Projection redacted. I'm so sorry. We just thought statistically you should be cooler than this.
> *Berliner* Apology accepted. Okay. Anyway, I have to go to my autoerotic asphyxiation workshop in Ridgewood. I am leading it, so I cannot be late. Thinking about me every time. Oh.
> *Thyme* The song again. The grammar.
> *Cale* It's so bad.

#### Raghu Rai has died
[Raghu Rai’s whole canvas was India](https://www.economist.com/obituary/2026/05/14/raghu-rais-whole-canvas-was-india)

Check out the article for some of his iconic photos. One of my favorite photographers ever.

> India in every aspect was his canvas, but it was the people who enchanted him. Throughout his more than 18 books of photo essays, there was barely a frame that did not show their intensity and energy. He was not an intrusive photographer. Only one camera, usually his faithful Nikon Z8 with a zoom lens, hung round his neck, and he carried no bags. His movements were leisurely. Over the years he had learned patience. Mud-sculptors making goddesses, near-naked wrestlers relaxing under Kolkata’s Howrah bridge, the boy splashing paint and running off laughing, mourning women raising their arms, did not try to pose for him, and he did not want that. Humbly he preferred to merge with his people, a part of the beating whole, seeing them with a pure and unsentimental eye that was led not by his mind, but by his heart.
> 
> Only an Indian could do this, someone who understood from the inside his country’s many layers. He could have been a photographer of the world, but when he was invited to join the Magnum agency in 1972—on the recommendation of Henri Cartier-Bresson, no less, who had seen his work at an exhibition in Paris—it took him five years to reply. Meanwhile he went to work for various Delhi-based magazines, especially _India Today_, where he stayed for a decade, showing India to itself.

> To catch that one moment of revelation was already his mission. For photo-shoots of celebrities he insisted on continuing until he found it: until the actress Aparna Sen laid her head on the table in mock frustration, or the actor Satyajit Ray, still smoking his pipe, suddenly twisted round to gainsay him; or until his favourite tabla-player, Zakir Hussain, entered a trance of silence. With the very famous he did the same. He caught tiny Mother Teresa slowly negotiating stairs, her sari filled with light; his friend the Dalai Lama, with an untroubled smile, taking a screwdriver to his TV; Indira Gandhi, in a moment of anxiety, contorting her face with her hands. An evening visit to a friend’s house produced one of his favourite images, achieved only when he turned to look one last time: a view of the whole of Delhi, spread out under a darkening sky, with at its heart a small lit room in which a woman prayed.