### 2026-06-23
#### What the left believes
From a letter in The Economist:  [Were we too quick to attack “Gen Z socialism”? \| Jun 20th 2026 Edition](https://www.economist.com/letters/2026/06/18/were-we-too-quick-to-attack-gen-z-socialism?giftId=NjgwN2UzODMtYTEzZi00NDIyLThlNTgtYmQ1ZGY1MjllMzkz&utm_campaign=gifted_article)

> [_The Economist_ was too quick to attack “Gen-Z socialism”](https://www.economist.com/leaders/2026/06/04/how-to-fight-back-against-gen-z-socialism) (June 6th). Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and Zohran Mamdani aren’t cold war socialists committed to central planning, vanguardism and foreign dictatorships. They are democratic pragmatists who support civil and political liberties, good governance and expanded public services. This is the stuff of “sewer socialism”, not Stalinism. Today’s socialists want to abolish the Immigration and Customs Enforcement agency because they believe in freedom of movement, and because masked thugs are kidnapping people off the streets. The push to tax billionaires comes not from a zero-sum mentality, but from witnessing massive wealth weaponised against liberal democracy itself. Like its namesake, a Green New Deal seeks to save capitalism from capitalists, and cool the planet too. Universal health care is no more a threat to American liberalism than it was to the British kind. Finally, _The Economist_ itself has warned of the risks apartheid poses to democratic legitimacy. The horrors in Gaza have just awakened liberals to this danger.
>
> These can all be defended on liberal grounds. There are illiberal ideas on the left, but it is the liberal ideas that are attracting followers. We should ask ourselves why we so often find that socialists express our values better than our fellow liberals.

#### How to launch a tech product
[How to launch a tech product](https://www.economist.com/business/2026/06/18/how-to-launch-a-tech-product?giftId=MzU1YzM0ZWMtMzU1My00OWQ1LTg0YjAtYTQ0MmQ5OTkyMmVj&utm_campaign=gifted_article)

hilarious, and very relatable.

> …They set deadlines for internal teams: all firms could benefit from a few fixed dates in the calendar where they have to show what they have been up to. But for anyone who thinks that the tech industry suffers from groupthink, these events do not reassure. It doesn’t take long to see a slickly inauthentic formula.
> 
> Speakers hand off to each other by saying things like “And now here’s Kevin,” or “To tell you more about that, over to John.” A synth-laden electronic soundtrack, muzak for developers, will blast out while one person leaves the stage and the next person takes their place. (Apple does its launches on video; the camera will find Kevin, or John, lurking somewhere on its Cupertino campus.)
> 
> Kevin or John will be wearing an open-neck shirt, dark trousers and shoes with cushioned white soles. The only people who can wear sensible shoes on stage are customers from a boring industry like banking: their function is to show that regulated industries are clients, and it is important they look staid. No one can wear a tie. If you see someone wearing a tie, they are a security guard.
> 
> Kevin or John or whoever will stride into view, plant their feet apart and wait for the music to stop. They will look at the audience and, for reasons that are unclear, say: “Wow!” Then they will look at the autocue and start speaking. Every three seconds, they will raise their hands up from their sides and hold an imaginary cardboard box. To mix it up—they’re not robots!—they occasionally hold out their hands as though each contains a mango. Every two minutes they will move to one side of the stage, plant their feet and start doing the box or mango thing again.
> 
> No matter what Kevin or John is announcing, they will say they are “super-excited” about it. They might be telling the world that they have discovered a way to teleport, or revealing that a device is now available in a slightly different colour, but it will be impossible to tell from their monotonically rapturous delivery.
> 
> …
> 
> Kevin or John’s segment will end just as it began. They will say, “And now here’s Rohan,” or “Over to Mike,” and walk off the stage while the giant screen behind them does something vibrant and the muzak starts up again. Rohan or Mike will stride on, stand just where their predecessor did, and say: “Wow!”