### 2026-06-08
#### Spatial Homogenisation and Coffee Shops
[Welcome to the Pinterest Ghetto](https://www.instagram.com/reels/DZFWV2eTd85/)

Came across this nice reel on Insta, which gave me a nice term to describe something I have always observed - "spatial homogenisation". This reel talks about it in the context of Indian coffee shops, but tbh this is true for coffee shops across the whole world.

> Welcome to the Pinterest Ghetto.  
>  
> Step into any specialty café from Bangalore to Bandra, shut your eyes, and try to guess what city you are in. Chances are, you can’t.  
>  
> Exposed brick, industrial black metal, a lone monstera plant, and hanging Edison bulbs. It’s an identical aesthetic template that has quietly colonized our urban spaces.  
>  
> In design theory, this is called spatial homogenisation. Somewhere along the line, the Indian middle class was taught that to look “sophisticated,” our spaces must mimic a gentrified warehouse in Brooklyn.  
>  
> By letting global algorithms dictate our surroundings, we are substituting genuine, climate-responsive architectural restraint with theatrical props built purely for an Instagram grid.  
>  
> Our public spaces are where urban culture is performed. If the stage looks identical everywhere on earth, our culture starts to feel identical, too.  
>  
> It’s time to look past the feed and look again.

Here is the substack post on the same topic from the author: [Lesson 1.1: The Pinterest Ghetto and the Loss of Vernacular Space](https://studioapara.substack.com/p/lesson-11-the-pinterest-ghetto-and)

#### I Want You To Be Happy by Jem Calder
[I Want You to Be Happy: The Sally Rooney-approved book of the summer](https://www.dazeddigital.com/life-culture/article/70399/1/i-want-you-to-be-happy-book-of-the-summer-jem-calder-interview-2026)

> In the 18th century, great novels followed certain tropes. The love stories were grand and convoluted, often tragic but nearly always neatly resolved by the end. These were books about relationships which took place in grand country houses, in which communication was careful and often declared on some type of bucolic pastoral background. Marriage and babies inevitably followed. But that was then, and this is now. In 2026, nobody kisses hands over white silk gloves and promises their estate to their one true love. In 2026, we have something much worse: the situationship. 
> 
> Jem Calder’s new novel, the aptly-titled _I Want You To Be Happy_, follows its two protagonists Chuck and Joey over the course of an (arguably) always doomed, always poorly defined relationship. It begins inauspiciously. Chuck, a 35-year-old copywriter who dreams of writing the next great novel, has just broken off an engagement with his long-term partner when he gets drunk in a bar and chats up Joey, a 23-year-old barista and sometime poet with crippling impostor syndrome. They find kinship in the threadbare nature of their lives in London; their unfulfilling jobs, the loneliness and atomisation of trying to build a life in a city that seems, by its very existence, ambiently determined to make you broke and unhappy. But this is not, let’s be clear, a love story.

> “… I think older people think that people are pursuing these kinds of relationships for the sake of it, because there’s a freedom to it, but ultimately it just ends up being the hedonistic treadmill of the dating app, and another way to make you feel completely replaceable and cog-like in this very impersonal feeling city.”

> But Calder, 34, does not want his novel to be read as ‘relationship negative or pessimistic’. “I think people can have meaningful encounters with other people that can be sustaining and creatively generative, and formative in terms of identity, but at the same time there’s a bitter irony as the novel goes on that this relationship just means fundamentally different things to these people.”

> _I Want You To Be Happy_ ends on an open, unfinished note. It invites the reader to imagine the possibilities for Chuck, for Joey, for every corporate drone millennial in London. It confronts us with the cold hard facts: that our capacity to imagine a world better than situationships, flat-shares, overdrafts and horrendous WhatsApp chat is up to us. Good luck.


#### you might be into what you say you don’t want
[kinks in other people](https://www.avabear.xyz/p/kinks-in-other-people?hide_intro_popup=true)

> I’ve always thought there’s something very powerful about Carolyn Elliott’s framework of [Existential Kink](https://www.amazon.com/Existential-Kink-Unmask-Embrace-getting/dp/1578636477). Sasha has a great [post](https://sashachapin.substack.com/p/the-craziest-thing-that-ever-happened) about it, but I’ll roughly summarize it as integrating your shadow (in the Jungian sense) by accepting that _you might be into what you say you don’t want_. Like, let’s say you complain all the time about your terrible job, but you’ve refused to quit over a period of years. You might actually achieve integration by realizing that you actually, in her language, _get off on hating your job_. In other words, [you have what you want](https://www.avabear.xyz/p/you-have-what-you-want).