### 2026-05-24
#### Marilyn Monroe
[The rare midnight photos that might reveal the ‘real’ Marilyn Monroe](https://giftarticle.ft.com/giftarticle/actions/redeem/582e65f2-5ddf-41e9-ba96-8d81186b698f)

> “Men don’t see me,” Marilyn Monroe once said. “They just lay their eyes on me.” She was born Norma Jeane Mortenson in 1926, a century ago this year; by 1962, she was dead, aged just 36. We have been trying to see her clearly ever since.

> Trying to catch a glimpse of the true Marilyn in photography and footage is, to some degree, a fool’s errand: if interviews and transcripts of her therapy sessions have famously revealed her to be a well-read neurotic rather than a trifling bauble, her command of the lens is so uncompromising that we only really get to see her exactly as she wanted to be seen. “I never knew anyone who even came close to Marilyn in natural ability to use both photographer and still camera,” Arnold said. “She was special in this, and for me there has been no one like her before or after.”
    
    
#### The French Colonial Tourism in Morocco
Podcast: [The French Colonial Tourism Industry in Ifrane, Morocco \| Maghrib in Past & Present \| Podcasts](https://themaghribpodcast.podbean.com/e/the-french-colonial-tourism-industry-in-ifrane-morocco/)

Full Transcript: [The Cosmopolitan - The French Colonial Tourism Industry in Ifrane, Morocco \| Transcript Reader](https://apps.debugjois.dev/transcript-reader?t=ab12183f25780639)
Great short podcast on an interesting aspect of colonialism - the promotion of tourism.

This is a good explanation of the concept of "Hill Stations" - prevalent also in British colonies like India.

> So Ifran is a colonial hill station, and a hill station is a type of urban settlement generally located high up in the mountains and generally located up where the climates are cooler. In East Asia and South Asia, we have about a 108 hill stations mapped out. And Ifran is an example of 1 of these places, but it's within Northwest Africa. Hill stations, I would define as having a couple requisites. The first being climate and the second being health.
> 
> European So colonialists at this time generally believed that climate and health were very, very closely interlinked. That's the reason that you get places like the now abandoned hospital in Benzmir, Morocco, high up in the mountains. These places were types of sanitariums. And over time, places of rest became places of leisure. So when European colonists are settling the interiors of Morocco and interiors of other countries within the Colonial Hill Station model, they established tourism over time.
> 
> And what's important to note about Colonial Hill Stations is that they're a settlement. They're not a place that existed otherwise. So if you look at Ifrane itself, it was developed in about 6 months in 1929 from near nothing. I'm not going to say nothing because many Tamazare speaking communities lived there, especially the Benny Magild imagines. But the place sprung up very quickly.
> 
> Another thing about Hill Stations is that the people that worked there, the people that labored are not necessarily the people that benefited from this, and this is where the colonial relationship really comes in. Within Ifran, we have photographs and records of about 400 prison laborers from the area who were forced to labor to build this town, And this is common within the French Empire and common within other hill stations more broadly. And hill stations generally located high up in the mountains are located far away from the so called native in the European colonial relationship. And this is why you get the sister city of Tim Dakin next to Ifren, which originally was a Bidonville, a shanty town. And of course, Tim Dakin has gotten better over time, especially after independence.
> 
> But the population that worked in Ifren did not live there. The population that was served in Ifran was visiting there from outside. And even before that, they were settler colonialists coming in either from Europe or coming in from Morocco's coast towards the interior.


> Within the advertising, there's 1 document I have that talks about the civilized man and camping. It's an advertisement for a camper van. And roughly translated, it says, the civilized man, part excellence, is an animal of luxury. He has demands. The civilized woman is doubly demanding.
>
>It is necessary for the civilized man to adapt to the savage life, only being able to live in it with certain commodities. This is a rough translation of a document within Archie de Marocque. The reason I bring this up is that within the French civilizing mission, it permeates the tourism industry as well, where there are ideas about bringing civilization to Morocco, sort of differentiating between the civilized and the savage. And this goes back to classic orientalism and what we see with Edward Said's work. The idea of there's a people who need to be protected until they're ready to become sovereign.
>
> And that's the whole foundation of the French protectorate. So in advertising the camping industry and camper vans in a way that makes it seem as if there's a way to experience this savage land in a civilized way, It's another way in which the French justified empire. And if it was in an advertisement for a camper van, imagine it in military and political activities as well.