### 2026-01-23
#### Oliver Burkeman on "Unclenching"
[The Imperfectionist: The freewriting way of life](https://ckarchive.com/b/wvu2hghkm7066h9r552rqtnq2okxxs8hq2g6w)

> Freewriting, as you may know, is the technique whereby you set a timer, open a text file or notebook, then just write whatever comes to mind, even if it looks like absolute garbage. It’s been central to my process of clarifying and expressing ideas for a while now, despite the fact that it challenges every bit of my perfectionistic, control-freakish soul. More recently, though, I’ve started to see it as a microcosm for a whole way of being in the world. Because I think the principles of freewriting contain an entire philosophy for living a meaningful, vibrant, productive life – whether or not you happen to be a writer or use the technique itself.
> 
> This is because freewriting is a form of what I’m going to call (perhaps regrettably) **unclenching** – a psychological “move” that involves relaxing in the midst of anxiety and uncertainty. Surrendering control, but thereby unleashing a vastly greater capacity for action, creativity and [aliveness](https://ckarchive.com/b/zlughnhk8772ma7qrr9qehwzgng00f6).


> In the end, I suppose that this unclenched approach to life works because it reflects how things actually are. We all _are_ freewriting our lives, inevitably, whether we like it or not. Even the most hidebound plan-maker and routine-follower is still choosing, again and again, to keep following those plans and routines, in each new moment that arises. And even the most anxious worrier, forever trying to rule out future uncertainties, remains subject to the fundamental truth that [anything could happen at any moment](https://www.oliverburkeman.com/anythingcouldhappen).
> 
> Unclenching into life demands that we relax in the midst of the uncertainty and insecurity, because “in the midst of the uncertainty and insecurity” is where we always are. The reward is the aliveness, agency and sense of purchase on life that comes from no longer pretending otherwise.