### 2026-06-17
#### AI reliability
[AI Builds Some Pyramids - Bloomberg](https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/newsletters/2026-06-16/ai-builds-some-pyramids?cmpid=BBD061626_MONEYSTUFF)

Nice quote from Matt Levine's latest.

> It’s a fascinating recursive vulnerability: Modern AI relies on trusted human sources to understand the world, but humans increasingly rely on AI to understand the world. If the trusted human sources take whatever AI says at face value, then whatever AI says will just become fact. Who can dispute what both Claude and KPMG say is true?

#### Samurai culture and death
[How to Live Fully: The Samurai Guide to Dying Every Day](https://www.themarginalian.org/2026/06/15/hakagure-death/)

> The great paradox of human life is that our mortality is the fulcrum of our search for meaning — the yearning to make this brief lungful of life matter amid the breathless void of space and time — and yet we spend our lives obviating the fact that we are mortal. If we are lucky enough, if we are lucid enough, it may take us less than a lifetime to learn that to deny death is to deny life.

#### When Did White-Collar Work Start to Look So Bleak?
[When Did White-Collar Work Start to Look So Bleak?](https://archive.ph/78gO6#selection-1991.0-1999.605)

> The historian Dylan Gottlieb, in his new book, “[Yuppies: The Bankers, Lawyers, Joggers, and Gourmands Who Conquered New York](https://archive.ph/o/78gO6/https://cna.st/affiliate-link/2Cd7yruAyULCXPkeEoRU1oFgKhDrFgdE3CgGi6skfVoeFRoAkZsk2KzK2W6B57rxJx4ZQt9gUSA18XMUEP4PB26ggmYsCaG1E2vindw71L9sPvFAvwZbL48LSeJjypifUsejWGZ3RJDwLrURkXCWXcUZwkQJT18LsXp3m3FxpVGyvZKMhgFQC2i5JYwNrXGzKUsX3gcVM5Mwq1T3L1o61zcqDTZEJjkL51vHxZqtYdZRFMR6egHbrGn7jHLhqNGaPNUrPJ4AUgoUQZ9ff45Xw9SFEUFeLE2QuDzXvRvPUACKhEzKsomji4QPzCWgMHhFTuPxvFRFM5sqztx94XrTQg6WbgsQ7FsQEKQ4iqgZWG9HTdhmKSNwN5dYthZALYJ2dAjGTh7RB6y3xE7jzZyWjxQnGicTz9hZCckiLrJUtJ4e)” (Harvard University Press), considers his subject with an eye to this interior view. Gottlieb is no yuppie apologist, but he offers a portrait of yuppie motivations with more nuance than simple consumerism. He does so by focussing on the thing that defined yuppies more deeply than their fondness for Chardonnay or sushi: their work.

> Career, for Gottlieb’s yuppies, was a life style: the ethos of hard work and competition which defined their lives on the job pervaded their leisure hours as well. Long-distance running was the most blatant case in point—a punishing feat of endurance that held out the promise of quantified individual success. Marathon-training regimens were the subject of office bonding; lunch-hour jogs supplanted a previous generation’s golf and Martinis as occasions for networking. But even pursuits that might appear more obviously indulgent—dining, say—attained gruelling rigor in yuppie hands. Eschewing rote fine dining, Gottlieb writes, the yuppie “accrued more status by consuming omnivorously” (and thus dim sum earns Tess credibility with Katharine). The Zagat restaurant guide began as the hobby of a husband-and-wife pair who’d met at Yale Law, and soon became a popular business gift—one that, in Gottlieb’s telling, affirmed giver and receiver alike as “knowing members of the meritocratic elite.”



> The way people feel about work is a phenomenon larger than any one job, and it involves a sprawling world of relationships. In Hochschild’s research, which she wrote up in her 1997 book, “[The Time Bind](https://archive.ph/o/78gO6/https://cna.st/affiliate-link/3Cjw7rzrGZesRbhJZMqDHmnMzvPYkXGRTmvoXgoTGLxsPPiqb6yMmSxx7ssWHNsaHSoibSuJQCjpqDekTLaVCn4TZVkPsJRaknWWWsqxzr8TMFgLLcHP5LKvGNu4nNMqs5W6S8ioJPwAJvCdXBb13M5mJLpfvg3CxX3whHoXQm2Pc9LXzL96LSZWL7N2dZ32VPJFtz37FkDoK32UiNCiApxrPq93wJT2oguB4cNMbqVuB83aNdCHhnvp85U9v3BJ4KQkxsEoToWMpkGNABYrJ4dVsBsGES5DYdSaY5g1mD11AQDkveSo27GuSMdewnQ3WKHBBxWE4dDLJ5GgDivcSQQwhLUgCxqQNwVx1RUDaUR3zgdMx5TBi8v5Vc7aQGw6rm9djikxLdEn6XBzHbwZDx),” she notices something unexpected. People told her that they wanted more time with their families, and Amerco offered policies that were, on paper, generous. Yet few took advantage of them, and, in fact, many Amerco workers seemed to gravitate toward shouldering ever more work. Sometimes this was the result of unspoken norms that official company policies had failed to counteract: an H.R. department talking up flextime didn’t suddenly dissipate the arms-race pressure ambitious employees felt to prove their dedication through long hours. Sometimes it was a response to their families’ material needs. In either case, work had come to look like a problem and a solution simultaneously. Work was a place to see friends, to accomplish tasks, to receive recognition; it was a place that promised a sense of control, which was particularly seductive because control was so frequently lacking at home. “People wonder: Where do we feel the safest?” Hochschild writes. “Even among those with lousy jobs, the answer is sometimes ‘at work.’ ”
> 
> This sense of control is the crux of Jodi Kantor’s ode to jobs. “For many of us, work is the route to satisfaction over which we often have the most agency,” she writes. “In a healthy work setting the rules of the game have clarity: if we are hard-working, strategic, skilled, and collegial, we maximize our results.” But “many of us” and “often” are hedges that are (as they say) doing a lot of work. The workplace’s sense of control can prove illusory—as it did in the era of yuppie-wrought corporate consolidation, and as it does now for graduates entering an economy destabilized by new uncertainties.

#### New Yorker profile of Jürgen Habermas
[ürgen Habermas Defended Reason in a Darkening Age](https://archive.ph/bUayH#selection-557.0-561.478)

> You wake up and brace yourself for the barrage of toxic gibberish that constitutes the modern public sphere. Your e-mail is overrun with spam, scams, and smut. There are voice mails from no one about nothing. A glance at the news reveals that the President is continuing to spew lies and obscenities; that a trillionaire is peddling white-supremacist propaganda on a social-media platform he owns; that a chart-topping musical artist is praising Hitler, or apologizing for praising Hitler, or praising Hitler once again. Publications from the _Times_ on down employ clickbait headlines that treat you like a starving rat in a Pavlovian experiment. A.I. systems simulate the experience of talking to an arrogant ten-year-old boy who knows far less than he thinks he does. When pressed, the chatbots admit that they cannot “naturally understand human morality, dignity, culture, or meaning.” It all adds up to a continuous discursive tinnitus—a buzz of random, fake, stupid, sinister chatter that nobody wants and nobody can stop.

> None of this would have surprised a previous generation of German thinkers—the group known as the Institute for Social Research, or the Frankfurt School. The institute emerged in the nineteen-twenties, went into exile during the Nazi period, and returned to Germany after the war. Its leading figures, Max Horkheimer and Theodor W. Adorno, saw capitalist society not as the antithesis of totalitarianism but as its more affable, aw-shucks twin. Citizens become commodities; technology increases the power of an already powerful few; pop culture serves up mechanized slop; truth and lies commingle. Their default mode was apocalyptic: “The fully enlightened Earth glows under the sign of triumphant disaster.” Now, with gig workers frantically self-branding, tech barons amassing unthinkable wealth, algorithms dictating consumption, A.I. infecting reality, and Earth itself turning feverish, Horkheimer and Adorno’s worst-case scenarios begin to seem overly optimistic.

> At the heart of Habermas’s omnivorous, at times contradictory, body of work is an idea as simple as it is profound: in adopting the perspectives of others, we learn to become ourselves.

> Adorno assails the last topic \[domination of culture\] in a chapter titled “Culture Industry,” which has few rivals in the annals of élite dyspepsia. “All mass culture under monopoly is identical,” he notes. Consumers have the “freedom to choose what is always the same.” He is arguing with the absent Benjamin, who saw liberatory potential in Charlie Chaplin movies. Until recently, Adorno seemed to have lost the debate. Generations of readers rejected his snobbery, his prejudice, his tendency to write sentences such as “The same babies grin endlessly from magazines, the jazz machine endlessly pounds.” But the underlying ideas sting harder now. Adorno sees mass culture as a pivotal component of the capitalist scheme to mollify the populace with calculated compensations. It claims to be serving the public while inventing needs that the public had been happy to live without. The façade is democratic—Hollywood stars are just like us!—yet the structure is authoritarian, training us to bow down before celebrity gods. The birth of a fascist President out of the spirit of reality television could be seen as a Q.E.D. for Adorno’s thesis.
> 
> The question, of course, is what we are supposed to do with these bourgeois jeremiads against bourgeois civilization, beyond enjoying them as high-end primal-scream therapy. Members of the Frankfurt School were prey to what Habermas’s colleague Karl-Otto Apel called the “performative contradiction”: if you have used the tools of reason to dismantle reason, your own work might be compromised in turn. The Marxist theorist Georg Lukács complained that Adorno and company had taken up residence in what he called the Grand Hotel Abyss—“a beautiful hotel, equipped with every comfort, on the edge of an abyss, of nothingness, of absurdity.” Habermas wished, in a sense, to vacate the hotel and traverse the abyss outside.

