### 2026-01-02
#### Common People
“I wanna live like common people  
I wanna do whatever common people do  
Wanna sleep with common people  
I wanna sleep with common people like you”  
Well,​ what else could I do?  
I said “I’ll, I’ll see what I can do”

**– Pulp, _Common People_**

Found here: [The Watching Menace: Crowds, Voyeurism and Photography - Flashbak](https://flashbak.com/the-watching-menace-crowds-voyeurism-and-photography-480760/)
#### Hope is a discipline
[Pluralistic: The Post-American Internet (01 Jan 2026) – Pluralistic: Daily links from Cory Doctorow](https://pluralistic.net/2026/01/01/39c3/) #ccc #ai #law 

> Like I said at the start of this talk, I have been doing this work for 24 years at the Electronic Frontier Foundation, throwing myself at a door that was double-locked and deadbolted, and now that door is open a crack and goddammit, I am _hopeful_.
> 
> Not optimistic. Fuck optimism! Optimism is the idea that things will get better no matter what we do. I know that what we do matters. Hope is the belief that if we can improve things, even in small ways, we can ascend the gradient toward the world we want, and attain higher vantage points from which new courses of action, invisible to us here at our lower elevation, will be revealed.
> 
> Hope is a discipline. It requires that you not give in to despair. So I'm here to tell you: don't despair.

NB: _Hope is a discipline_ is a quote originally attributed to [Mariame Kaba](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Mariame_Kaba). I recently came across it and since then I have been seeing it everywhere. I think it's a pretty powerful statement.
