### 2026-04-04
[everything i read in february & march 2026](https://www.personalcanon.com/p/everything-i-read-in-february-march-2026?triedRedirect=true)

truer words were never spoken.

> In the last few years, I’ve written thousands and thousands of words about the same idea: that reading more (books, magazines, and essays) will change your life for the better. It will satisfy you more than the slop that is, supposedly, more entertaining and fun to consume. It will draw you closer to other people, closer to the world. It will disturb your pre-established understanding of the world and offer a subtler, richer, deeper experience of reality.

#### Brooklyn Coffee Shop
I stumbled upon this series while bedrotting and recovering from a wisdom tooth surgery this week. 

It's kinda hard to locate a sequential playlist of all the episodes in this series (there are like 60+ so far afaict), but this is the official Instagram account: [Brooklyn Coffee Shop (@bkcoffeeshop) • Instagram photos and videos](https://www.instagram.com/bkcoffeeshop/)

This article I found describes the show very well: [Turmeric Lattes & Millennial Marxism: In Conversation With Pooja Tripathi Of Brooklyn Coffee Shop  | Homegrown](https://homegrown.co.in/homegrown-voices/pooja-tripathis-satire-laced-indie-web-series-unpacks-the-absurdities-of-modern-life)

> Your coffee order says everything about who you are. Plain black without sugar screams old-school, efficient, and honestly, "Who hurt you?" The cappuccino with foam art is for the basic bitches (sorry!) and and the iced matcha latte with dairy-free milk and a scientific customisation speaks to a very Gen Z-coded sense of hyper-individualism. [Cafés](https://homegrown.co.in/homegrown-explore/hinoki-a-japanese-inspired-cafe-in-delhi-is-pioneering-the-homegrown-slow-bar-movement) today have evolved into the wild wild West of curated identity — shaped by micro-trends and cultural semiotics, where taste is both aesthetic and ideology. These theatres of self-performance and the weird little niches they are comprised of, become the playground of the beloved Instagram & TikTok series Brooklyn Coffee Shop.
>
> Created by Pooja Tripathi, a New York-based writer, producer, and performer, Brooklyn Coffee Shop is a satirical series that distills the internet’s most peculiar subcultures into tightly composed, hyperreal vignettes set in a fictional café. The series constructs a microcosm of the modern urban life in a [digital age](https://homegrown.co.in/homegrown-creators/loksutr-is-giving-indigenous-oral-craft-traditions-a-new-life-in-the-digital-age) where aesthetics, belief systems, and social capital collide. With sharp worldbuilding, deadpan humour, and a precise understanding of internet folklore, it paints an incisive and chaotic picture of the zeitgeist.
>
> The series delivers some heavy critique but through the lighthearted premise of sketches. Its tone comes from absurd comedies that Pooja has always been a huge fan of. She counts '_Portlandia'_ and Lena Dunham’s '_Girls'_ as formative influences, both of which combine observational wit with an irreverent lens on [urban](https://homegrown.co.in/homegrown-creators/ascent-amidst-absence-yash-vyas-sculptural-art-ponders-the-cost-of-urban-progress) pretentiousness. Add '_My Favorite Shapes'_ and '_Fantasmas'_ by Julio Torres to the mix , and you begin to understand the show’s DNA. “Comedy always has a kernel of truth at the core,” Pooja notes. “Even if it’s exaggerated and heightened for a sketch, I think that core truth is what hooks people.”