### 2026-06-09
#### Indian Uncles
[India’s republic of uncles](https://www.economist.com/asia/2026/05/31/indias-republic-of-uncles)

accurate tbh

> LET ME TELL you how to identify an Indian uncle. A dead giveaway is the phrase “let me tell you”. It is inevitably followed by a thesis on what really ails the country. Another hallmark is unsolicited advice, veering from career counselling (“only girls study literature”) to dietary prescriptions (“eat five soaked almonds to build immunity”). But the defining feature of the Indian uncle is his bottomless disdain for the youth of today: feckless phone-addled softies, the lot of them. They need discipline.
> 
> The uncle reigns supreme across India’s divides of religion, caste and language. He earns his radioactive confidence through the simple act of reaching middle age, thereupon instantly gaining omniscience. But despite proselytising the Way of the Uncle on WhatsApp, his authority extends only to his own circle. The uncles who run India, however, know no such boundaries. They inflict their fossilised notions upon the nation. India is a republic of the uncles, by the uncles, for the uncles.

> The Indian uncle’s toolkit for dealing with criticism is limited. At home it starts and ends with “Don’t talk back okay!”

#### Influencers vs Evidence-based medicine
Part 1: [Influencers v evidence-based medicine (part one)](https://www.economist.com/podcasts/2026/05/27/influencers-v-evidence-based-medicine-part-one)

Part 2: [Influencers v evidence-based medicine (part two)](https://www.economist.com/podcasts/2026/06/03/influencers-v-evidence-based-medicine-part-two)

Very informative two-part podcast which might help you discern when to listen to health influencers. I learnt a lot about how this influencer and treatment/drug marketing works behind the scenes.

For e.g. this bit about the usefulness of various measuring devices and trackers

> Assumption in healthcare, the more data we collect, the better. Yeah, that’s a much better way of thinking about my question. Condense up for you. And that’s not always the case. Sometimes it is. It’s on very much a case by case basis.
> 
> The evidence seems to suggest in terms of the footstep count and everything else, there’s a period where it’s effective and then there’s a novelty effect. And what systematic reviews have found is they don’t tend to lead to much health gain in the long run.
>
> She knows, she’s like, why can’t I just go out and enjoy the beautiful Scottish countryside and I turn it into a festival of data misery instead with all my apps and wires and everything else.
> 
> And there can be benefits there and there can be communities, but it depends what your end goal is. But does it make you fitter? No, not necessarily.
> 
> But the problem is, is this idea of generalizability. So a lot of the studies are done on athletes where they are shaving a second off. An event means the difference between winning gold and silver. That ain’t me that’s like chugging along on a treadmill in a gym.

specifically continuous glucose monitoring

> So one example is continuous glucose monitoring.
>
> So, your body has homeostatic mechanisms. If you eat bar of chocolate, your glucose goes up and guess what? It should come back down again. If it doesn’t come back down again, then you might start thinking, do I have diabetes? Yeah.
>
> And these devices are used for people with type 1, type 2 diabetes in particular that use insulin to monitor their condition to help them adjust their.
>
> This is life or death.
>
> The evidence currently would say no, we don’t know whether it makes any difference in the short or long term and the reason why you monitor your insulin or your glucose if you’ve got type 1 diabetes, the immediate effects of the ketoacidotic coma or hypoglycemia, but longer term it’s the impact on your blood vessels.


And some practical advice at the end of the first podcast.

> **Alok Jha** [00:32:24] That’s perfectly preempted my last question, which is going to be, none of these technologies are going away. What practical advice can you give to people about how to sort of harness all of this in a constructive and informed way? Because there is something good in there, it’s just how do you find it?
>
> **Deborah Cohen** [00:32:39] I think we’re learning. I think were at the foothills. So two things really, if you’re on social media is, first of all, why is this person telling me this? What is the incentive? It might be perfectly well-meaning, but how are they making the money? What’s the incentives behind them being there? And it’s just being a bit healthily sceptical. If they’re only telling me about the benefits and not telling me the harms, are they telling me their full story? If it’s a personal experience, are there other sources of information I can go to that provide more of a evidence-based look at this particular condition or treatment. You might get your preliminary sort of warmth and relationships and everything else from social media, but there are other sources. Just cross-check. And what are the conflicts of interest? And then if you’re using a wearable, why am I measuring this metric? Will altering this metric do anything good for me in the short term or even the long term? So if you’re radically change in your diet, like with the glucose example and introducing loads of burgers rather than bananas, you might think, well, further down the line, that might not be a good thing. And that’s why I wrote the book. I was trying to show people how doctors think when they’re in a healthcare setting and the questions they ask and the question they want to know when they are diagnosing or they’re interpreting tests or they are looking at the benefits and harms of treatment.