### 2024-09-26
Podcasts: #podcasts 
- [Gillian Anderson collects other women's sexual fantasies in her new book 'Want' : NPR's Book of the Day : NPR](https://www.npr.org/2024/09/25/1201498984/nprs-book-of-the-day-gillian-anderson-want) #books #sexuality
- [‘Slow Horses’ Season 4, Episode 4 With Showrunner Will Smith - The Ringer](https://www.theringer.com/2024/9/25/24254485/slow-horses-season-4-episode-4-recap-with-showrunner-will-smith) #tv 
- [Are the world’s oldest people really that old? – podcast | Science | The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/science/audio/2024/sep/24/are-the-worlds-oldest-people-really-that-old-podcast) #longevity : The most interesting part in the podcast is where the guest debunks a lot of the longevity research and the the romanticized concept of "blue zones" — areas where people supposedly live significantly longer due to lifestyle factors like diet, community, and exercise. If anything, there is a simpler answer to where and how people live longer, and that has got to do with wealth: _“Eurostat, for example, measure hundreds of regions across the EU. The first time they did this, downtown Brussels was the place that lived the longest. Now it's Switzerland. You just pick a rich place that is boringly safe, and that's the answer. And the reason is very simple. These are clean places with lots of money, and what they spend their money on is exercise, you know, doctors. It's not very complicated.”_
- [Where I'm At Right Now | Never Post](https://www.listennotes.com/podcasts/never-post/where-im-at-right-now-Tv9o5ExC64K/) #pop-culture : Good analysis of vulnerability and the dynamics of being vulnerable on a social media platform. This paper analysis vulnerability from the lens of social media: [The politics of vulnerability in the influencer economy - Brooke Erin Duffy, Anuli Ononye, Megan Sawey, 2024](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/13675494231212346)

Fredric Jameson died this month: [For the Marxist Literary Critic Fredric Jameson, Reading Was the Path to Revolution - The New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2024/09/23/books/review/fredric-jameson-appraisal.html) #literary-criticism #marxism #critical-theory

> If you are a critic, professional or otherwise, the task before you is to make sense of an artifact of the human imagination — a poem, a painting, a dish of pasta, a Netflix docuseries, whatever. What does it mean? What is its value? To find the answers, it helps to know something about where it came from. Who made it? Under what conditions? For what purpose?
> 
> Those may not be specifically Marxist questions, but they are historical questions, and they begin a process of inquiry that may lead to Marxist conclusions. That love sonnet or fast-cooling plate of rigatoni is neither isolated nor static: It exists in relation to (for starters) other works of literature and gastronomy, and it changes over time. And so, of course, do you. Reading a Shakespeare sonnet in middle age is not the same as studying it in school, and what it means in the 21st century is not what it meant in the 17th. The noodles your grandmother served on Sunday are not the ones you will order at Olive Garden on Wednesday night.
> 
> Mapping that system and tracking its changes is the work of what Jameson calls “dialectical thought.” It’s a lot of work. To historicize your dinner you will need to take account of the voyages of Marco Polo, the European conquest of the tomato, the story of Italian immigrants in America and the rise of The New York Times cooking app. But of course there is, properly speaking, no pasta without antipasto; no _primo piatto_ without a _secondo_; no dinner without dessert. Those matters will also need to be investigated. And we have not even raised the issue of gluten or the possibility of grated Parmesan. Or, more seriously, the unequal distribution of food in a consumer economy.

Abstract of the vulnerability paper linked above: [The politics of vulnerability in the influencer economy](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.1177/13675494231212346)
> While workers of all stripes are compelled to embrace uncertainty under conditions of neoliberalism, ideologies of risk assume a particular guise in the platform economy, wherein laborers are exhorted to ‘put yourself out there’. Given the attendant harms associated with public visibility – especially for women and other marginalized groups – it seems crucial to explore platform-dependent laborers’ experiences of ‘putting themselves out there’. This article draws upon in-depth interviews with 23 social media influencers and content creators, sampled from across platforms, content niches and subjectivities. Our analysis revealed that vulnerability is a structuring concept in the influencer economy – one that operates at multiple, often overlapping levels. First, the commercial logic of authenticity casts _personal vulnerability_ as a strategy for building community and accruing followers. But influencers’ individual disclosures were often entangled with their social identities (e.g., gender, race, sexuality, ability and body type), which rendered them socially vulnerable to targeted antagonism from audiences﻿. Interviewees experienced a range of harms, from identity-based hate and harassment to concerted take-down campaigns. These personal and social vulnerabilities were compounded by the vulnerabilities of platform-dependent labor: not only did participants identify the failures of platforms to protect them, some shared a sense that these companies exacerbated harms through a commercial logic that incentivizes antagonism. After examining the emotional labor necessary to manage such _platform vulnerabilities_, we close by reiterating the unique precarity of platform labor, wherein participants lack the social and legal protections typically afforded to ‘vulnerable workers’.
