### 2024-10-29
The fever continues to persist. I _think_ I feel a bit better than yesterday. But it might be just the effect of the paracetamol. Once it starts wearing off the wooziness and discomfort returns.

#### Cursor 
[How I write code using Cursor: A review](https://www.arguingwithalgorithms.com/posts/cursor-review.html) #ai #coding 

This article makes some good relevant points. Also read the [HN discussion](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=41979203).

> Whether I'll be using Cursor in a few years or have moved on to another tool, I can't really tell. I am confident that at the time of writing this, Cursor is the best example of the potential of LLM coding assistants, and if you want to explore how this type of tool might be of value I suggest you give it a spin.

I found that I don't use the tab completion as much as the `Cmd-K` inline editing and `Cmd-L` chat features. However, on the rare occasion I did use it, it was pretty helpful to avoid a lot of manual typing. The other thing I believe folks are overlooking is prompt engineering. The precision and clarity of your prompts can make a difference in the output you are getting.

#### Matt Levine
[Why So Few Matt Levines? · Gwern.net](https://gwern.net/matt-levine)

> Many people owe most of what they know about stock trading, bonds, arcane but controversial matters like naked shorts, meme stocks etc to Levine; and I would be embarrassed to admit how much of my economics knowledge comes through Levine rather than some more rigorous source like my old economics textbooks. This is because Levine provides 3 key ingredients which foster learning…

This is the reason I recommend Matt Levine's newsletter to everybody. Reading his newsletter for a decent period of time is the equivalent of getting a minor in finance and economics.