### 2024-10-23

#### all the information I consume on the internet
I feel like one of my big failings, and simultaneously my big flex is the amount of information I track on the internet. On the one hand - after years of doing this I seem have developed a remarkable ability to hold a conversation or spout random bits of knowledge on a wide variety of topics, which seems like a useful skill to have 🤷🏽. On the other, I think the time and effort that I dedicate to this has prevented me from engaging in some forms of deep work that I would very much like to do and might be potentially rewarding. 

In any case, there is no question that I push myself to the verge of information overload, but tbh I actually really enjoy myself while doing it. Here is my rough system around how I manage to have some sort of discipline and efficiency in the process:

- **Mainstream Media:** The easy part is subscribing to mainstream media stuff - i have subscriptions to Economist, Financial Times (the international one), Bloomberg News, NYTimes and The Hindu. I have subscribed to the Economist since a decade, and  I highly recommend it for their sheer breadth of coverage. Their China coverage is one of the best.
- **Podcasts:** I listen to podcasts on [Podcast Addict](https://podcastaddict.com/app). I listen while doing chores, commuting, walking, when I want to shut out the world, and times when I am waiting for stuff to happen. Over the years I have gotten used to listening to stuff at 2x speed most times without too much loss of context. Here is the OPML file export from Podcast Addict app that contains a list of all 180+ podcasts I am subscribed to: [OPML file listing all the Podcast feeds I subscribe to · GitHub](https://gist.github.com/deepakjois/6542597f19e67a6737a4d279c8261fb2)
- **Other Internet Content:** For most other reading I rely on RSS/Atom feeds. RSS and Atom are web feed formats developed in the early 2000s that allow users to receive updates from websites in a structured way. It is often used by news sites and blogs to aggregate new periodic content like news articles or blog posts. Most people don't know that a lot of sites and blogs on the internet syndicate their content via feeds (for e.g. [Substack does](https://support.substack.com/hc/en-us/articles/360038239391-Is-there-an-RSS-feed-for-my-publication), and so do blogs powered by popular software like Wordpress). To read these feeds you need a software called a Feed Reader. I use [NewsBlur](https://newsblur.com/), which is reasonably priced hosted service. There are other hosted options like [Feedly](https://feedly.com/) which are more popular. One can also use a feed reader app on a Mac or PC.
- **Email Newsletters:** Both Feedly and Newsblur also support reading email newsletters using their feed reader interface. You can either use a custom email address they provide and subscribe to the newsletter, or have Gmail filters forward the email to their custom email address (if for some reason you have no choice but to send the email to your personal inbox first). Once the email lands on their servers, it is integrated into the same interface as the rest of the feeds.
- **Other Stuff:** X, [Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/) and YouTube (I have Premium). X and Hacker News great for finding random great stuff which I otherwise would not come across from my standard sources. Sometimes, if I really like a source, I end up subscribing to them to receive future updates in my feed reader.

#### Podcast roundup
From now on, instead of keeping a daily cadence, I will just list interesting podcasts I came across whenever I get around to it during a week. #podcasts 

- [Podcast #1,032: Lee Child the Writer, Jack Reacher the Character, and the Enduring Appeal of Lone Wolves | The Art of Manliness](https://www.artofmanliness.com/living/reading/podcast-1032-lee-child-the-writer-jack-reacher-the-character-and-the-enduring-appeal-of-lone-wolves/) #tv #books - Big fan of the _Jack Reacher_ franchise. I didn't think too deeply about the plot and themes in the show. I just enjoyed the characters and the style of the show. But this interview provides a very different dimension to the work. It goes deep into the lone wolf aspect of Reacher's character and questionable moral universe in which he resides.
- [BBC World Service - CrowdScience, Why do my armpits smell?](https://www.bbc.co.uk/programmes/w3ct5rhr) #smell #body-odor - quote from the episode: _advertising had a lot to do with the modern notion in many cultures that body odor is repulsive. It's certainly a clever way to sell more soap, especially the idea that your perspiration could be stopping you from attracting a partner._ Also found a good book reco on the history of 
- 