### 2024-10-26
#### Daily Log Digest Newsletter
Tweaked some code to fix newsletter generation code that I originally wrote during LearningDev hack hours: [Tweaks to newsletter code after testing · deepakjois/debugjois.dev@d45cfee · GitHub](https://github.com/deepakjois/debugjois.dev/commit/d45cfeeecc510cbd76956d868cc952644fad6940)

Put out a call for folks willing to test it. Will add a link to it in a couple of weeks after I have sent out a couple of newsletters to the early testers.

#### Podcast Recap
- Speaker 1: Generally speaking, when we talk about gender equality and feminism, this gives the impression that all women care about the same issues. Reproductive choice and abortion, worthy causes to feminists. But different women have different ideas of what women's issues look like. And this is really depending on where they live. In 2016, researchers interviewed women in the now defunct Tea Party Movement in the US, who really outlined how constitutional politics impacted upon how they framed motherhood and their role within their family. • So particularly, second amendment rights, the right to bear arms to protect their families from an existential threat. So I think it's really important to drill down into the context of where these beliefs are being fermented and developed. Voting or electoral data gives us a great overview of the macro level issues that people find interesting, so immigration, crime, terrorism, health, education. But this doesn't reveal very much about the person casting their vote at the ballot box. If we're to gain a better understanding of women and their support of the far right, then we need to take a closer look at the micro politics of their everyday lives.
