### 2024-09-29

TIL: _India’s clothing and textile industry is the third-largest sector by employment, after farming and construction._ From: [How India can compete in labour-intensive manufacturing](https://www.economist.com/asia/2024/09/26/how-india-can-compete-in-labour-intensive-manufacturing) #india #clothing #manufacturing

[The self-help book began in the land of the stiff upper lip](https://www.economist.com/britain/2024/09/23/the-self-help-book-began-in-the-land-of-the-stiff-upper-lip) #self-improvement #self-help

> The year 1859 was a big one for British publishing. Charles Darwin’s “On the Origin of Species” was published, as was John Stuart Mill’s “On Liberty”. So too was a now largely forgotten book by an author named Samuel Smiles. It was boring, badly written and critically panned: one writer called books of its sort “the silliest ever known”. Naturally, readers loved it. It outsold Darwin, popularised a new term and in the process changed publishing for ever. It was called “Self-Help” and its aim was simple: to teach readers that “with Will one can do anything”. One could certainly sell more books: last year in Britain, according to figures from Nielsen BookData, 3% of all books sold were self-help.
> 
> For as long as there have been selves, they have needed help—and books have offered it. The Bible has been called the world’s first self-help book; Marcus Aurelius’s “Meditations” still pops up on self-help tables in bookshops. Advice such as Ephesians 4:32 (“Be kind to one another”) and Marcus’s 5.16 (“the soul becomes dyed with the colour of its thoughts”) could sit happily in any modern manual. Other bits of counsel less so: Leviticus 18:7 (“Do not dishonour your father by having sexual relations with your mother”) may be good advice but feels less like a fridge magnet.
> 
> …
> 
> …If you believe Marcus Aurelius, that hardly matters. Wealth, ambition and achievement are, he wrote, all worthless: we are here for but the briefest moment before entering the “abyss of eternity”. There may be better ways to spend it than reading self-help books.

TIL the origins of the word "woke": [After peak woke, what next?](https://www.economist.com/leaders/2024/09/19/after-peak-woke-what-next)

> ONE OF THE early uses of the word was by Lead Belly, who sang about the Scottsboro boys, nine young African-Americans in Scottsboro, Alabama, who were wrongly accused in 1931 of raping two white women. They got an unfair trial; all nine later had their convictions overturned or were pardoned. In a recording in 1938, Lead Belly warns black Americans travelling through Alabama to stay “woke”, lest they be accused of something similar. Even the most committed anti-woke warrior would grant that the man had a point.

P.S. - the article is also a good analysis of how woke culture has evolved since it's peak in 2021-22.

[What to read about modern feminism](https://www.economist.com/the-economist-reads/2024/09/19/what-to-read-about-modern-feminism) #books  #feminism 
- _The Penguin Book of Feminist Writing_ edited by Hannah Dawson
- _Feminisms: A Global History_ by Lucy Delap
- _Men Explain Things to Me_ by Rebecca Solnit
- _We Should All Be Feminists_ by Chimamanda Ngozi Adichie
- _Hood Feminism: Notes from the Women White Feminists Forgot_ by Mikki Kendall
- _Trans: When Ideology Meets Reality_ by Helen Joyce
- _Invisible Women: Exposing Data Bias in a World Designed for Men_ by Caroline Criado Perez

[What the history of money tells you about crypto’s future](https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2024/09/19/what-the-history-of-money-tells-you-about-cryptos-future) #money #monetary-theory

> The study of history may also disappoint crypto enthusiasts who wish to liberate money from government control. Monetary policy—the manipulation of money by the state—is almost as old as money itself. Even when coins were made out of gold or silver, governments fiddled with their weight and purity. The value of coins often departed from the preciousness of their materials. Indeed, governments sometimes diluted the silver content of smaller, more practical coins to prevent shortages.

I wish more crypto bros followed this line of logic, but they seem to be set on having their heads in the sand.

This article also talks about an interesting paper I found elsewhere: [Understanding Money Using Historical Evidence](https://ideas.repec.org/p/fip/fedhwp/98103.html)

> Debates about the nature and economic role of money are mostly informed by evidence from the 20th century, but money has existed for millennia. We argue that there are many lessons to be learned from monetary history that are relevant for current topics of policy relevance. The past acts as a source of evidence on how money works across different situations, helping to tease out features of money that do not depend on one time and place. A close reading of history also offers testing grounds for models of economic behavior and can thereby guide theories on how money is transmitted to the real economy.

[Most electric-car batteries could soon be made by recycling old ones](https://www.economist.com/science-and-technology/2024/09/19/most-electric-car-batteries-could-soon-be-made-by-recycling-old-ones)

> Despite a slowdown in electric-vehicle (EV) sales in some countries, demand for batteries was up by around 40% globally last year, and seems likely to continue at a similar pace. Consequently, the world’s appetite for lithium, the vital ingredient in the lithium-ion (Li-ion) batteries that dominate the EV market, is expected to exceed 2.4m tonnes in 2030, more than twice its present level.
> 
> Where all this lithium will come from is a thorny question. Although 70% of the world’s reserves of lithium carbonate (from which it is mined) are in Argentina, Australia and Chile, processing it into a form suitable for use in batteries is a business currently dominated by China. As China also commands the processing of other important battery materials, including manganese, cobalt and nearly all battery-grade graphite, there is concern about the vulnerability of supply chains should China begin restricting supplies of certain raw materials, as it has done in the past. As a result, legislators and carmakers in Europe and North America have been trying to establish local supplies for batteries.
> 
> These efforts are about to be given a big boost. Recent breakthroughs in recycling, together with a spate of technological improvements, mean that within a decade or so most of the global demand for raw materials to build new batteries could be met by recycling old ones.

This article also has a nice deep dive in how battery chemistry and recycling processes work.

[Silicon Valley sleep hackers turn to caffeine pills before bed](https://sfstandard.com/2024/09/28/bedtime-caffeine-hack/?ref=labnotes.org) #sleep 

> But are any of these supplements backed by legitimate science? A 2021 study by the B Sync folk published in [Nature](https://www.nature.com/articles/s41598-021-98376-z) analyzed the effect of time-delayed nighttime caffeine on intentionally sleep-deprived men and found “improved behavioral, cognitive, emotional, and physical levels.”
> 
> Conceptually, these pills could be considered a super-extended “nappuccino,” said [Cassie Hilditch,](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Cassie-Hilditch) a researcher at the Fatigue Countermeasures Laboratory at San Jose State University, referring to the trend of having a cup of coffee before a 20-minute catnap.