### 2024-11-19
#### What are children for
[Links in Progress: What are children for?  - by Boom](https://www.worksinprogress.news/p/links-in-progress-what-are-children)

> _In this one, Boom’s [Phoebe Arslanagić-Little](https://x.com/pmarslanagic?lang=en-GB) reviews the most important things happening in the world of pronatalism and family policy in the last month._

#### Conservative News Influencers
[The majority of news influencers are conservative men, study finds](https://www.usermag.co/p/the-majority-of-news-influencers)

> This morning, The Pew Research Center, a nonpartisan research organization, [published a deep 122 page report](https://www.pewresearch.org/journalism/2024/11/18/americas-news-influencers/) that found that the news influencer landscape skews male and leans disproportionately conservative, creating a concerning imbalance in our online news landscape that could ultimately have profound political consequences.

…

> In a media environment where about [4 in 10 adults under 30 regularly get news from news content creators](https://www.pewresearch.org/journalism/2024/11/18/americas-news-influencers/), this imbalance isn’t just inequitable—it’s a systemic distortion of public discourse that ultimately undermines democratic values, entrenches conservative messaging, and accelerates polarization. I've written before about [how desperately the left needs to build an infrastructure to amass online influence](https://www.usermag.co/p/why-democrats-wont-build-their-own), these stats highlight just how urgent that mission is.

and a surprising tidbit about how TikTok is actually an exception in some ways

> Politically, TikTok also bucks the trend: it’s the only platform where right-leaning news influencers (25%) do not outnumber left-leaning ones (28%). TikTok also has a higher concentration of news content creators who identify as LGBTQ+ or advocate for LGBTQ+ rights (13%), which is more than double the proportion on other platforms.
> 
> As I've written previously, TikTok [remains a hub for progressive activism online](https://www.washingtonpost.com/technology/2024/06/13/influencers-biden-tiktok-ban/). But unfortunately, this has [made the app the target of right wing ire and directly fed efforts to shut it down](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2024/mar/16/tiktok-ban-progressive-politics-activism).

#### Postgres Tips
[What I Wish Someone Told Me About Postgres | ChallahScript](https://challahscript.com/what_i_wish_someone_told_me_about_postgres?ref=labnotes.org) #databases #tools 

Great list of easy to understand tips for when I get around seriously using the Postgres database, hopefully in the not so distant future.

#### Don't Deceive Yourself
[don't deceive yourself - by Celine Nguyen - personal canon](https://www.personalcanon.com/p/dont-deceive-yourself)

Only recently started following Celine Nguyen on Substack, but her essays contain detailed analysis and lovely references.

> I used to be jealous of the people who seemed to just _write_ more, _do_ more, _make_ more work than me! But lately I’ve realized that, while some are lucky to have an easier life (the prototypical trust fund kids, for example)…many of those people, in Didion’s words, knew the price of things. They wanted to make certain projects happen, and embraced the consequences.

#### The Stone Soup Theory of Billionaires
[The Stone Soup Theory of Billionaires - by Brett Scott](https://www.asomo.co/p/the-stone-soup-theory-of-billionaires) #money #anthropology 

This is a powerful counter-narrative to the prevailing gospel which worships billionaires and their achievements. I will quote the intro in full, but the whole article is worth reading.

> In recent years there’s been a strong outbreak of the [Great Man Theory of History](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Great_man_theory). This is the idea that single powerful or inspired men - literally men - create history and should be adored, or, on the flip side, reviled. Trump is obviously one of these people, but so too is Musk, Bezos, Putin, and so on. Regardless of whether they’re imagined as superheroes or supervillains, it’s assumed that the future somehow springs fully-formed out of them.
> 
> When you imagine that the course of history uniquely resides in single individuals like this, you also imagine that slight shifts in their decisions affect everything for the rest of time. They’re like the star characters in a great global soap opera, but one in which nobody else has any role but to watch them, and either praise or condemn their actions.
>
> This same style of thinking is often applied to their wealth. The Great Man Theory of Wealth assumes that extreme riches are the result of inspired work that the person undertakes. If Bezos had not got up one morning in 1994 and had an idea for Amazon.com, we’d never have a global e-commerce platform. I mean, there are only 8.2 billion of us on the planet. Surely, the chances of a _second_ person working out that you could match buyers and sellers on the Internet is incredibly small!
>
> It’s always imagined that the Great Man _builds_ something. He _built_ a nation. He _built_ a company. This isn’t the full reality. Here’s what actually happens: _other people_ mostly build the thing, and the role of the Great Man is simply to be the focal point around which it’s built. To understand this, let’s turn to the parable of the Stone Soup.

He further goes on to break down and rebut several arguments that support the idea that somehow these billionaires deserve the wealth that they have acquired.

#### Professional Managerial Class
A two-part exploration of the Professional Managerial Class (PMC) on Bill Mitchell's blog triggered memories of my own path down exploring this phenomenon a couple of years ago.

- [The dislocation between the PMC and the rest of the working class – Part 1 – William Mitchell – Modern Monetary Theory](https://billmitchell.org/blog/?p=62133)
- [The dislocation between the PMC and the rest of the working class – Part 2 – William Mitchell – Modern Monetary Theory](https://billmitchell.org/blog/?p=62174)

> The work of author – [Barbara Ehrenreich](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Barbara_Ehrenreich) and her then husband – [John Ehrenreich](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/John_Ehrenreich) – in the 1970s, first introduced the term – [Professional–managerial class](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Professional%E2%80%93managerial_class).
>
> The PMC according the Ehrenreichs were a “social class within capitalism that by controlling production processes through occupying a superior management position, is neither proletarian nor bourgoeisie”.
>
> The PMC was occupied by “scientists, lawyers, academics, artists, and journalists”.
>
> While the Ehrenreichs focused on the mechanisms whereby this class, through their education and networks, advanced the interests of capital, Catherine Liu focused more on the disdain that the PMC have for the lower-paid occupations – the sense of superiority and virtue.

Time to dust off the paper copy of the book lying in my shelf and attempt to re-read it.
#### We Have Never Been Woke
Found references to this book in some of the PMC stuff I was reading because it articulates some similar ideas: [We Have Never Been Woke | Princeton University Press](https://press.princeton.edu/books/hardcover/9780691232607/we-have-never-been-woke)

From a review in [The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/commentisfree/2024/nov/10/cosplaying-social-justice-is-the-new-elitist-way-of-elbowing-out-the-working-class):

> “Woke” is not a particularly useful term, more often used in disparagement than in analysis. Al-Gharbi recognises this, disavowing it as a slur, refusing even to define it. What matters to him is how the concept is deployed in practice both by supporters and detractors.
>
> The key to understanding wokeness, Al-Gharbi insists, is the struggles of “symbolic capitalists” – “professionals who traffic in symbols and rhetoric, images and narratives, data and analysis, ideas and abstraction”. In other words, writers and academics, artists and lawyers, museum curators and tech professionals. It is a social stratum that attempts to entrench itself within the elite, elbowing out others already there, by using the language of social justice to gain status and accrue “cultural capital”. Theirs is a struggle within the elite presented as a struggle against the elite on behalf of the poor and the dispossessed.
> 
> This is not simply cynicism or hypocrisy, Al-Gharbi argues. Symbolic capitalists have constructed myths about their social roles that allow them genuinely to believe in fairness and equity while entrenching inequality and injustice, myths that have been accepted by many social institutions and power-brokers. The consequence is that the language of social justice has helped “legitimize and obscure inequalities”, allowing sections of the elite to “reinforce their elite status… often at the expense of those who are genuinely vulnerable, marginalized and disadvantaged”.

#### A Materialist Analysis of US Election Results
[Why Are Poor Americans Voting for the Party of the Rich? | Listen Notes](https://lnns.co/lANz_msVn-U) #materialism

Adam Tooze gave from what all I have read, a really fresh analysis of the US election results from a materialist theory perspective. It's a rather long quote I picked out from the transcript, but it's really worth it. I really like the high analogy at the end between Kamala as a "spelling-bee girl" and Trump as a "high-living frat boy", and 

> Yeah, this is a great question. And I mean, I think at the most general level, the issue with materialism and the critics of materialism—materialism being the big, grand, metaphysical, almost philosophical idea that it's what we eat that determines who we are more than what we think. It's realities, it's the means through which and the way in which we reproduce our lives that shapes identities and assumptions about the world, right? That basic premise.
> 
> The thing about it is that it's so often applied as a means of rather coarse—not to say crude—simplification. You know, this for workers, that for capitalists. And then, surprise, surprise, the world doesn't make that much sense if you're trying to apply that. And in this particular case, as you're saying, what are we to make of the fact that better-off people seem to be voting for redistribution? It's turkeys voting for Thanksgiving, you might say. Conversely, you have working-class voters voting for a business party that's promising to produce huge tax cuts for the ultra-wealthy.
> 
> To my mind, the thing here is that materialism is misunderstood. And if you take it seriously, it's the precise opposite of simplification. It requires an almost infinitely painstaking attention to detail. It's, you know, almost like a novelist's attention to detail. And in this particular case, I think we need to just start by recognizing that the very minimum class schema we need to understand American politics right now is a three-class rather than a two-class model.
> 
> I mean, like, one element is an idea of the working class. Let's define that in terms of dependent employment—being working for somebody else, relatively low incomes (so, by all means, earning less than the average, so $50,000 or less), and a lack of control at work that goes hand in hand with relatively less credentials, less education.
> 
> At the other end of the spectrum, there are what you might call the rich people, the upper class, who have not just higher incomes but wealth and power and the security that goes with that. In the Marxist sense, they may actually literally control the means of production—a big hotel, a factory, a business, or whatever.
> 
> But you can't understand the politics of the US right now unless you've acknowledged that there's a third social class. Let's call it the professional-managerial class, who are credentialed by the education system, occupy positions of authority within the economy and society at large, and they exercise control directly, often over working-class Americans. And that starts literally at the beginning in kindergarten or elementary school, where you have a college-educated person taking charge of your kid and their kid's education, or taking charge of you yourself and subjecting you to education.
> 
> And it goes all the way through to the hospitals where your kids are born and your parents die, and the folks that regulate what you can build in your front yard and everything else, right? The entire apparatus of managerialism. And you can see where I'm going with this, mate. Once you've got that three-part schema in place, which is thoroughly materialistic, you can, I think, easily understand the dynamics which are in play here.
> 
> The stereotypical working-class Trump voter admires the man himself, right? He admires—or she admires—the billionaire businessperson and his cronies. They've done well, and they exercise the privileges of having done well because they're allowed to speak their mind and do their own thing. And above all, what they're allowed to do is flaunt and show disrespect and scorn for the values of the professional middle class, which the rich folks can afford to just spit on, and working-class people have to suffer, right?
> 
> Trump and co. can say out loud what many ordinary Americans think, which is that they simply can't get with the highfalutin ideas of everyone from the schoolteacher to the librarian, all the way up to the fancy Ivy League professor and the folks on television who want to talk about complex norms of transgender identities or structural racism or climate change—these big abstractions, difficult concepts. And yet, what the working-class observer will point out is that it's not actually those people, in the final analysis, who call the shots. The people who do are the people like Trump. And those are the people that you kind of admire. And if somebody like that is willing to just shoot their mouth and speak their mind and say whatever they like, and it turns out to be a relatively conservative message, then this plays extremely well with that working-class constituency.
> 
> And this is not anti-materialist or a refusal of materialism. It's a very specific set of resentments, deeply embedded in the existence of many working-class Americans every day of the week. And as you start from there, what is difficult to understand about the fact that working-class men are not keen to vote for fancy, high-powered lawyer ladies as candidates of the Democratic Party? There's just nothing to my mind that strikes me as surprising about this at all, right?
> 
> It adds, you know, and the appeal—or rather the distaste—is compounded by the fact that that fancy lawyer lady is treating Trump as though he's a buffoon. And one of her most successful punchlines in the campaign to the New York Times-reading class is, "I'm speaking now," right? Which is this sort of maternal assertion of power towards whoever it is who's supposed to shut up at that point. In this case, it was a heckler, but it expresses something that working-class Americans will find easy to relate to in a negative way.
> 
> I mean, is it really surprising that white women without college degrees preferred Trump over Hillary and then Harris by a margin of 25 to 28%? I struggle to understand why anyone finds this surprising. Like, you know, imagine a middle school class, and imagine there's two people throwing a party, and one of them is like the state champion spelling bee girl, and the other one is a high-living frat boy who appears to know how to have a good time. Where would you expect the less academically ambitious girls in the class— which side, which party do you expect them to go to, right?
> 
> So the very fact that American liberals find this so hard to digest to the point at which they begin to question their own metaphysical assumptions, you know, to my mind, is an expression of the extraordinary material—profoundly material—divides there are in US society that literally render the behavior of one group almost incomprehensible to the people who supposedly understand everything, right? The liberal educated group.
> 
> And one of the reasons why we can't see this incredibly obvious, incredibly powerful three-way split is that it's very badly captured by the statistics that we have to rely on. It's really appalling how inadequate the sociological data are on American elections. Basically, what do we have to do? We have to rely on two categories to do almost all the work. One is college versus non-college, and the other one is $50k, $50k to $100k, $100k plus.
> 
> As though these were adequate categories for describing the complex reality of American society. I mean, it's telling that even if you just combine those two elements, you end up with something quite informative, which is that amongst men without college degrees, there is a huge propensity to vote Trump amongst those with over $100k in income. Because, you know, just imagine the novelistic character here: this is the small business owner who didn't go to college and nevertheless has made good, and therefore knows very well that folks like Harris or Clinton are just a huge pain-in-the-ass lawyer lady that they want to have absolutely nothing to do with, right?
> 
> And so there's this scornful rejection of those values, firmly rooted in materialism, translated into a cultural politics of mutual scorn and contempt, you know, which have very, very deep roots in American society in this current moment. So I think materialism is all the way. It gives us all the juice that we need, but we need a more refined, complex, richer understanding of these social, economic, and cultural hierarchies.