### 2024-11-18
#### NYT Amplifier Playlist
The new NYT Amplifier playlist just landed and I have been listening to it: [The Amplifier: 7 New Songs You Should Hear Now](https://music.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLu_RmAJBNiIKX01JatOKPfJcqryAiwN9X&si=44jh91xURPnUFev4) #music #playlist 

_Graucha Max_ by Darkside might be one of my favs.

#### Walking in Japan
[Walking Japan (again): From Fukuoka to Nagasaki](https://walkingtheworld.substack.com/p/walking-japan-again-from-fukuoka) #travel #japan 

Yet another lovely read from Chris Arnade. Yet another antidote to the Japan slop hitting my timeline from folks visiting there from India, and just marking off places they found in a tourist guide.

> Work as the central point of your life can sound empty and meaningless and not something you think I would admire given that I write about needing something spiritual that isn’t confined to this world, but also tries to make sense of what comes after death. Yet when you are a stakeholder in your job, that is when you are your own boss, which is one of the defining differences between craftsmanship and simple labor, then there can be a spiritual component, which while not as deep and complex as faith, can give someone a clear sense of purpose that extends beyond this life.

> In Japan, partly due to permissive zoning laws, but also because of historical precedent, there are independently owned and run restaurants almost everywhere, although they tend to cluster next to train stations, which are also almost everywhere. These small businesses are the economic and meaning-making engine for almost everyone who works in them, which is often both parents, and a few of their children. That sense of ownership, coupled with a culture of thoughtfulness, means the food in them is almost always amazing, no matter the location.

#### Sex Strikes
[Are sex strikes really the best response to the behaviours of men? | Dazed](https://www.dazeddigital.com/life-culture/article/65104/1/are-sex-strikes-the-best-response-to-the-behaviours-of-men-4b-movement)

#### Pretesting
[The ‘secret strategy’ that could boost your ability to learn | Psyche Ideas](https://psyche.co/ideas/the-secret-strategy-that-could-boost-your-ability-to-learn) #learning #hacks

> Imagine you are planning to learn about the solar system but, before you start, your teacher gives you a multiple-choice quiz on the topic. You haven’t learned a single fact about the solar system yet, so the questions, such as ‘Which of our dwarf planets is not a plutoid?’ or ‘Which planet is the least dense in the solar system?’, leave you staring blankly. Naturally, you are bound to make mistakes. You might understandably feel that this guessing in the dark is a complete waste of time. In fact, it’s not – a growing body of research shows this early test can significantly enhance your later learning.

> Researchers believe pretesting is beneficial because it improves the way that we process the to-be-learned material…
> 
> …
> 
> Increased [attention](https://journals.sagepub.com/doi/10.3102/00346543043001083?icid=int.sj-abstract.citing-articles.154) to the to-be-learned material could be another factor. Pan and his colleagues have [observed](https://psycnet.apa.org/doiLanding?doi=10.1016%2Fj.jarmac.2020.07.004) reduced mind-wandering after pretesting, and other researchers have [shown](https://www.tandfonline.com/doi/abs/10.1080/0163853X.2012.662801) that participants’ eyes focus more on sentences related to the questions they received in advance. Other potential mechanisms include an [improved](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC3631699/) motivation to learn and that pretesting [acts](https://psycnet.apa.org/record/2017-15804-016) as a metacognitive ‘reality check’, highlighting what you do and do not know and encouraging you to fill in knowledge gaps.
> 
> Whatever the mechanism is, when you later need that information, you’re more likely to recall it after a pretest than if you had simply read it.

#### Mental Health Diagnosis
[What a psychiatric diagnosis means – and what it doesn’t mean | Psyche Ideas](https://psyche.co/ideas/what-a-psychiatric-diagnosis-means-and-what-it-doesnt-mean) #mentalhealth 

> **A diagnosis is a prototype**
>
> In the official diagnostic manuals, categories such as bipolar disorder, schizophrenia or generalised anxiety disorder come with stringent criteria for applying the diagnosis. The view taken by clinicians is usually not so rigid. Instead, these categories are often understood as prototypical: they are based on the _typical_ or _illustrative_ example of a mental health problem from which real-world presentations will often deviate. From this perspective, a diagnosis is a ‘best fit’ match between someone’s experiences and a prototype, which represents the most specific or notable features of a condition.

#### Self Care and the Beauty Industry
Jessica DeFino is back again to eviscerate the beauty industry and their shenanigans: [Post-Election, Beware 'Self-Care'](https://jessicadefino.substack.com/p/2024-self-care-boom-trump)

> “Caring for myself is not self-indulgence,” Audre Lorde wrote in her 1988 essay collection, _A Burst of Light._ “It is self-preservation, and that is an act of political warfare.”
>
> If the activist were alive today, she would hardly recognize the concept of self-care, and we would hardly recognize her.
> 
> Consider: Her forehead would be wrinkle-free — a placid, paralytic approximation of youth — courtesy of Botox. Her frown lines would be filled with a smidge of injectable Juvéderm, and her eyes would appear wide and awake; perhaps from a blepharoplasty, perhaps from a syringe of filler to the tear troughs.

This time specifically, she is writing about the origins of the phenomena when "skin-care" got substituted by "self-care".

> I can’t say what Lorde would make of the surface-level “self-care” the beauty and wellness industries promote today, since it only rose to popularity in 2016. Following the (first) election of U.S. President Donald Trump, activists circulated the above quote from Lorde to emphasize the importance of tending to one’s needs in times of political upheaval. Cosmetic companies slyly swapped the word “self” for “skin”. Customers ate it up — of _course_ Lorde meant collagen levels when she preached about preservation! — because people were tired, and applying eye cream is easier than engaging in political action.
>
> Over the next year, skincare became the fastest growing market in beauty, amassing $5.6 billion in sales and totaling 45% of the industry’s growth. And over the next eight years, every failure of care by the government created another opportunity for Big Beauty to expand the reach of its narrowing standards, all under the banner of wellness.

#### Bihar's Daughters are Coding
Alice Evans looks at “the Honour-Income Trade-Off” in Bihar where girls are enrolling into programming school