### 2024-12-18
#### Meditations with Mortals Day Twenty One
This chapter is titled _What’s an interruption, anyway?: On the importance of staying distractible_

> As the Zen teacher John Tarrant explains, the way we talk about distraction implies something equally unhelpful: a model of the human mind according to which its default state is one of stability, steadiness and single-pointed focus. ‘Telling myself I’m distracted,’ he writes, ‘is a way of yanking on the leash and struggling to get back to equilibrium.’ But the truth is that fixity of attention isn’t our baseline. The natural state of the mind is often for it to bounce gently around, usually remaining only loosely focused and receptive to new stimuli, the state sometimes known as ‘open awareness,’ which neuroscientific research has shown is associated with incubating creativity. There are sound evolutionary reasons why this should be the case: the prehistoric human who could choose to fix her attention firmly on one thing, and leave it there for hours on end, so that nothing could disturb her, would soon have been devoured by a saber-toothed tiger. Monks in some traditions spend years developing single-pointed focus, in monasteries expressly designed to provide the required seclusion, precisely because it doesn’t come naturally. And so where the idea of interruption defines unanticipated external events as inherently bad, the idea of distraction defines the movements of the mind as similarly problematic.
> 
> Going through life with a rigid commitment to the elimination of interruption and distraction might seem like a way to stay more absorbed in what’s happening. Yet in fact it pulls you out of it, by undermining your capacity to respond to reality as it actually unfolds – to seize unexpected opportunities and to be seized by an awe-inspiring landscape or fascinating conversation; to let your mind take an unplanned journey into fertile creative territory, or to find enjoyment, as opposed to annoyance, in a small child bursting into your study, while fulfilling your obligations as a parent. ‘Getting lost and distracted in this way is what life is for,’ Tarrant writes. Looking at things from this angle, you might even argue that what makes modern digital distraction so pernicious isn’t the way it disrupts attention, but the fact that it holds it, with content algorithmically engineered to compel people for hours, thereby rendering them less available for the serendipitous and fruitful kind of distraction.

#### Go Error Handling
This is a good article enumerating the different issues around Go error handling: [Errors, Errors Everywhere: How We Centralized and Structured Error Handling | Oliver Nguyen](https://olivernguyen.io/w/namespace.error/) #golang #errors

The solution that they implemented to get around the issues is a bit idiosyncratic and may not be ideal. Here is the HN discussion: [How We Centralized and Structured Error Handling in Golang | Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42447762)

#### ad editor
An editor that tries to bring together the concepts in [acme](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Acme_(text_editor)) and vim editors: [GitHub - sminez/ad: an adaptable text editor](https://github.com/sminez/ad) #acme #vim #editor

#### git submodules
Good overview of git submodules: [Demystifying git submodules](https://www.cyberdemon.org/2024/03/20/submodules.html) #git #tools 

- `git clone --recursive` will checkout submodules as well
- `git config submodule.recurse true` will make `git pull` update submodules as well.
- `git submodule update --remote`  will update all submodules to their latest upstream commits.

#### In Praise of Writing on the Internet
[in praise of writing on the internet - by Celine Nguyen](https://www.personalcanon.com/p/in-praise-of-writing-on-the-internet)

> I began **personal canon** by accident—and only now, 34 posts and one year later, do I understand why I kept on going. This post is partly about writing a newsletter and building an audience for your writing, especially on Substack. But it’s also about what forms of writing are personally and societally meaningful, and why it’s felt so meaningful to spend the last 12 months writing about my love of literature. Below:
> 
> - All the rules I broke, and all the advice I didn’t take (but maybe should have?)
> - Why write a newsletter, and how it can be valuable to you and others
> - Useful resources and (potentially) useless advice

Celine writes looooong posts but I always try to make time to read them. There is something very relatable about her writing

> But what I’ve found is that there are _so_ many people like me—people who studied computer science and then felt some irrepressible longing towards literature and art and the humanities, who exert a great deal of effort to self-educate themselves in these domains. They want to read seriously, but they need a way in, and inviting and accessible discussions of great works mean a lot to them. (They certainly meant a lot to me.)

> The first belief is that **reading “seriously” matters**, especially if you take your taste/intellect/capacity to create seriously. The definition of “serious” is highly personal, of course, but all of us have an instinctive sense of what it means and when we aren’t doing it. We usually know when we’re reading something that’s good for us—and we know…