### 2024-10-27
#### Colin From Accounts
Finished Season 2 finally. It's a highly underrated TV show. #tv #comedy

#### Fear of Failure
Life had gotten into a nice rhythm the last few weeks, so I was a bit taken aback by the sudden onset of a funk today. I had some idea why it happened. I need to work on something a bit challenging over the next couple of days, and deliver it on a deadline. Doing it well could open up a lot of possibilities for me, so it's actually kinda exciting.

I spent some time introspecting on why my brain decided to go into this funk right at the moment where it needs to be at its peak performing best. What I was able to deconstruct was that it was a fear of failure. But that's too broad a category to put it. Upon further reflection I realised that I had put too much pressure on myself. I was expecting to be this person, who in the face of this particular challenge would just breeze through it. It wouldn't be a challenge at all. But the fact is that I am _not_ that person, at least on the face of it. I am not some genius who can do this effortlessly. I need to put in some real work if I have see this challenge through.

My brain is essentially reacting to this very realization - that I am not some genius 🤷🏽. It's quite silly come to think of it. I wonder if others go through this sort of thing. But I am glad I was able to deconstruct this, because now I have the opportunity to set that feeling aside, stop my brain from ruminating too much and just work through the problem at hand 🤞🏽.