### 2024-12-19
#### Meditations for Mortals Day Twenty Two
This chapter is titled _Stop being so kind to Future You:  On entering time and space completely_

> If there’s a single truth at the heart of the imperfectionist outlook, it’s the one to which we turn as we begin this final week: that this, here and now, is real life. This is it. This portion of your limited time, the part before you’ve managed to get on top of everything, or dealt with your procrastination problem, or graduated or found a partner or retired; and before the survival of democracy or the climate have been secured: this part matters just as much as any other and arguably even more than any other, since the past is gone and the future hasn’t occurred yet, so right now is the only time that really exists. If instead you take the other approach – if you see all of this as leading up to some future point when real life will begin, or when you can finally start enjoying yourself, or feeling good about yourself – then you’ll end up treating your actual life as something to ‘get through,’ until one day it’ll be over, without the meaningful part ever having arrived. We have to show up as fully as possible here, in the swim of things as they are. None of that means you don’t get to harbor ambitious plans as well – about the things you’ll accomplish, the fortune you’ll accumulate, or the difference you’ll make to the world. Far from it. It means you get to pursue those goals and feel alive and absorbed while pursuing them, instead of postponing the aliveness to when or if they’re achieved.

#### onecompiler
Found this site in a video I was watching: [https://onecompiler.com/react](https://onecompiler.com/react) #react #javascript #frontend

It's great to just copy paste a React component and have it visualized. I suppose there are other places on the internet that provide this, but I found this to be quite straightforward in that it required no setup.

#### Copying from remote SSH host to local clipboard
From: [Copying to your clipboard over SSH in vim with OSC52](https://jvns.ca/til/vim-osc52/) #clipboard #ssh

> [Dmitry Mazin](https://www.cyberdemon.org/) also told me you can create this script on a remote host, call it `pbcopy`, and piping into it will copy to your clipboard! I tested it and it works.

```bash
#!/bin/bash
printf "\033]52;c;%s\007" "$(base64 | tr -d '\n')"
```

#### What We Suffer For
[What We Suffer For  - by Josh Zlatkus - Living Fossils](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/what-we-suffer-for)

Great coming back to one of my fav substack after a long time. In this the author uses the model of evolutionary tradeoffs to explain the reasons why we are willing to suffer in life. Remember evolution only cares about increasing our likelihood to propagate our genes into the next generation. It is agnostic to our suffering (unless it contradicts with the primary goal as stated!).

> Over the years, I’ve been able to put together a list of what people are willing to suffer _for_.

In summary, we suffer for:
- To fit in
- Not having a good enough reason
- To avoid a loss
- To maintain a relationship
- To meet expectations

#### How to Promote Equality without Backlash?
[How to Promote Equality without Backlash? - by Alice Evans](https://www.ggd.world/p/how-to-promote-equality-without-backlash) #feminism

> Not all cancer treatments work. Likewise, not all feminist activism is effective. So, we can ask,
> 
> …
> 
> To advance gender equality, it may be more strategic to build inclusive campaigns that gently expand what is considered acceptable while appealing to common values. Gender interventions will have the greatest impact if they tackle locally-binding constraints, with careful sequencing. Delivering shared prosperity is equally vital - especially for disadvantaged young men.

Love the section where she outlines the three things that drive backlash

- Assaulting Core Values
- Exclusionary Tribalism
- Status Threats