### 2024-11-11
#### Economist on ADHD
[Researchers are questioning if ADHD should be seen as a disorder](https://www.economist.com/science-and-technology/2024/10/30/researchers-are-questioning-if-adhd-should-be-seen-as-a-disorder)

As somebody who recently realised I had very clear ADHD-like symptoms for most of my adult life, I have spent way too much time researching and understanding the disease. I have posted about some of the stuff I have uncovered before.

> It is like being inside a pinball machine with a hundred balls,” says Lucy. “Three inner monologues,” says Phillip. “Like several tracks playing at the same time,” says Sarah. This is how people with attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) describe what is going on in their heads at any given moment. With so many thoughts jostling for attention, it is a struggle to concentrate. Appointments fly by. Relationships founder. Feelings of inadequacy—alongside anxiety and depression—start to creep in.
> 
> …
> 
> But for a growing number of experts, the evolving scientific understanding of ADHD is leading them to question whether it should be seen as a disorder at all.
> 
> Instead, they say, ADHD may simply represent another point on the spectrum of neurodiversity: the range of different ways of thinking and behaving that count as normal. They point to other, non-pharmaceutical interventions that have been shown to make a difference to people with symptoms, from building a supportive environment that harnesses their strengths to offering tools that help them cope with the challenges of daily life.

#### Day of the Jackal
Loved the first four episodes: [The Day of the Jackal (TV Mini Series 2024– ) - IMDb](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt24053860/) #tv 

