### 2024-09-08

[There’s a Non-Speculative Crypto Use Case That’s Actually Taking off - Bloomberg](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2024-09-06/there-s-a-non-speculative-crypto-use-case-that-s-actually-taking-off?sref=6rqLu4ZS)

> It's so funny. How much the narratives shift and are often very much at odds with each other. But the reason that can happen is because some people might argue that Bitcoin is kind of this weird postmodern thing. That it's just a token. Like it's just a symbol and people aren't really using it for anything other than betting.
> 
> …
> 
> Because the big contrast by putting them on a blockchain is if I have a bank account at say JP Morgan and I wanna send money to somebody at Bank of America — simplifying away a lot of the details here — JP Morgan has to essentially take money out of their accounts, whatever they were invested in, send it over to BofA, who's gonna reinvest it. In token world with a stablecoin it just sort of sits at rest being invested the whole time.
>
> And the token represents an ownership interest in that, moves around on a blockchain, which is also a very open access platform. It really is in many ways a bifurcation of rights that were not possible in the traditional system and changes how you can move money around and at what velocity.
> 
> …
> 
> Where now there appears to be a decent body of people who are using stablecoins for I will generically wrap it in the basket of ‘something else.’ And that ‘something else’ mostly seems to come in two forms. One is a lot of peer-to-peer transfers of stablecoins. So that's people probably using it for things like business payments, individual payments like settlement of, call it, “real world activity,” where one leg is in crypto.
>
> And the other part that they seem to be using it for significantly is just dollar access because something we take for granted in the United States because our banking system, you know, for all our criticisms is pretty good and largely works, it's easy for us to get dollars and more importantly it's easy for us to get dollars in a way that we feel good about being safe and secure.
> 
> But if you live in, like, Argentina, if you live in Venezuela, if you live in Southeast Asia, it can be much harder to get your hands on dollars. And this is definitely a tool where people are using that.

