### 2024-09-12
Podcasts #podcasts:
* [‘Slow Horses’ Season 4, Episode 2 With Gary Oldman!](https://lnns.co/fonZV5HiGWp)

Listening to this reader picks playlist on the latest Amplifier newsletter: [The Amplifier: Readers Pick Their Songs of the Summer](https://music.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLu_RmAJBNiILsPVX52-sK9vlz19KdPLuR&si=V02bGK2H64lZT_xg)

Amazing relatable read on a lonely man in his late 30s finding friendship in a spin class: [The Salve of Spin Class: How a Lonely Man Found Connection on a Bike](https://longreads.com/2024/09/05/spin-masculinity-loneliness-friendship) #loneliness #friendship 

> There’s a tweet I wish I’d written about how the real miracle was Jesus having a dozen friends in his 30s, and as someone who has now outlived Jesus, I can testify to the divine work it takes to have friends. With few exceptions, all my friends are married, having kids, and buying houses in the ’burbs. Achieving domestic bliss has really started to cut into my friends’ hangout time.
> 
> …
> 
> My 30s have been weird: isolating and demoralizing, a depressing gnarl in my stomach. A bone-deep, soul-swamped loneliness I can’t seem to text or swipe my way out of. Days alone in a crowded gym, nights alone on my couch, scrolling and hoping for connection and washing down hope with a handful of IPAs instead. I’m ashamed to be lonely, ashamed to ask for friends in the first place. Needing someone? How _embarrassing_.
> 
> …
> 
> For men like me, spin is hard. Not just the workout, but the vulnerability: letting go of competition and leaning into the group, a dying of self so the room can revive. It requires a purging of entire realms of my shitty male points of view, from shaming self-talk to the latent homophobia I encounter within myself when the instructor tells us to dance, to “make it cute.”
> 
> …
> 
> On the way out of class the other day, I stop and hover on the outskirts of a conversation. _Great playlist!_ and _That sure was a sweaty one, huh?_ Somebody mentions heading to a taco spot. I’m orbiting on the fringes of the group, neither invited nor not invited. I know these people, kind of—Karson and Rileigh and Steven and Kaitlyn. We chat until the group dissolves, and I say my farewells. Halfway home, the clarity pierces me: _Invite yourself. Go._ I want to say I don’t know what got into me, but I do know: I want friends. Walking into the restaurant, I feel like a kid again, approaching the cool table at lunch. I’m nervous, but tenuously confident—it’s almost as if showing up and flinging my body and practicing the act of being welcomed in spin class has prepared me for this. 
> 
> From across the dining room I can see them, laughing, hands reaching for chips like communion. When I walk up, there’s an empty seat. They saved it for me. I’ve been welcome all along.


BMTC Bus Hacks: [BMTC Bus Hacks : r/bangaloretransit](https://www.reddit.com/r/bangaloretransit/comments/1b8aqmp/bmtc_bus_hacks/) #transportation #business 

> With all the shit that BMTC buses and Namma Metro (and autos too, lbr) get, I've decided to make a post on points to note/ hacks to help you navigate our beloved B'luru better using buses.

Stumbled upon this repo which contains ffmpeg and related video tools written in Go: [asticode (Quentin Renard) · GitHub](https://github.com/asticode)

* [GitHub - asticode/go-astiav: Golang ffmpeg and libav C bindings](https://github.com/asticode/go-astiav)
* [GitHub - asticode/go-astisub: Manipulate subtitles in GO (.srt, .ssa/.ass, .stl, .ttml, .vtt (webvtt), teletext, etc.)](https://github.com/asticode/go-astisub)

[Your Boyfriend Isn't Your Camera Man](https://www.afterbabel.com/p/your-boyfriend-isnt-your-camera-man)

> Of course, there’s nothing wrong with your partner taking occasional photos of you. I can see how it might make people feel more connected to each other’s lives. But I think there is something wrong, there is something worth talking about, with this _compulsion_ to get pictures. There’s something wrong with a compulsion that can ruin the moment; with judging every experience in terms of _likes,_ leaving it joyless, and with _demanding_ your partner document you, over and over. Of course, we don’t all behave this way, but many—_more and more of us—_do. Not just girlfriends either—friends demand it of friends; family members demand it of each other; it’s happening all the time.


