### 2024-12-05
#### Meditations with Mortals Chapter Ten
Chapter Ten is titled _Just go to the shed: On befriending what you fear_

Why does it feel like with every chapter I read, that the advice in the chapter came at just the right time. This is one of my favorite chapters so far, and also the most confronting. To setup the chapter, I wanted to quote a tweet which I replied to flippantly the other day.

It's interesting to relate the courage to do something with the Jungian concept of a "life task" as described in this chapter (sidenote: Jung seems to be coming up everywhere for me after my friend Jasmine mentioned it a few days ago.)

> How can you identify your current life task? That must always be a matter of intuition. But there are two signposts that may help. The first is that a life task will be something you can do ‘only by effort and with difficulty,’ as Jung puts it – and specifically with that feeling of ‘good difficulty’ that comes from pushing back against your long-established preference for comfort and security. In the words of another Jungian, James Hollis, it may be the kind of endeavor that ‘enlarges’ you, rather than making you feel immediately happy. This is where you’ll need to be honest with yourself. For some people, honoring a life task might mean mustering the boldness to leave a relationship, or a job. But perhaps you’re someone for whom running away from difficult situations is your default behavior; in that case, your task might entail mustering the boldness to stay. Likewise, it might mean walking away from your life to become a humanitarian aid worker; but the equally uncomfortable possibility is that the voice telling you to become an aid worker is the internalized voice of societal morality, the one that thinks it knows better than you the sort of contribution you should make. Perhaps your real contribution will be designing jewelry, or writing songs.
>
> The second signpost is that a true life task, though it might be difficult, will be something you can do. If you only have a hundred dollars in the bank, your life task won’t require the immediate purchase of thousands of dollars’ worth of moviemaking equipment (although it might involve doing something to raise the cash). If you’re the single parent of three small children, it won’t involve working eighteen-hour days for a tech start-up; and by the same token, if you’re unable to have children, it won’t involve becoming a biological parent. “This helps distinguish the idea of a life task from certain popular notions of ‘destiny’ or ‘calling,’ which can leave people feeling as though there’s something they’re meant to be doing with their lives, but that their life circumstances make it impossible. That can’t be the case with a life task, which emerges, by definition, from whatever your life circumstances are. It’s what’s being asked of you, with your particular skills, resources and personality traits, in the place where you actually find yourself.