### 2024-10-02

Came across this substack post from somebody on X and found it super intriguing, esp the quote below: [Good At Sex: Seduction Via Narrative Reinforcement (pt 7)](https://aella.substack.com/p/good-at-sex-seduction-via-narrative)

> I view sex as a success for _both_ of us, and thus **seduction is a collaborative activity**. We both want the same thing: to get around my annoying brain gatekeeper that got installed there by eons of evolution that doesn’t understand birth control and is trying to evaluate if you’re worthy of impregnating me. So please—use seduction techniques on me. Roleplay as an alpha male well enough to trick my vagina into believing that your cum will give me alpha sons.

[Millennials Will Age Terribly - by Chris Jesu Lee](https://salieriredemption.substack.com/p/millennials-will-age-terribly)

> My friend Trevor has a thing he often says, about how in today’s society, there are no elders, only olders. By that, he means there’s decreasing social worth placed on acquired skills and knowledge that comes with life experience—distinct from lived experience, which is something more of a status boost granted upon birth based on one’s identity. Therefore, as one ages, there is no upside, only downside. You just become a more out-of-touch, slower, paunchier, balder, and wrinklier version of a young person. There are no elders. Only old young people.

This passage above ☝🏽 reminded of a concept explored in this post on Living Fossils that I posted on 2024-08-11: [Technology, Part III: A Fish Out of Water - by Josh Zlatkus](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/technology-part-iii-a-fish-out-of). 

> But that also makes me wonder if that’s because we can’t or won’t move on. If the economic situation were as rosy as the 50s and 90s combined, how different would things be, really? There is a piece in the Cafe Hysteria Substack entitled “[The Twenty-Something Teens](https://madisonhuizinga.substack.com/p/the-twenty-something-teens)” which looks at how 20-something women were eagerly identifying as teens (for instance, by overly identifying with the music of Olivia Rodrigo). My friends and I often talk about how the default identity that everyone tends to revert to online is that of the hysterical teen. Is that because online communication forces us to or because the freedom of the internet enables us to take our most preferred forms?