### 2024-09-21
How To Die Alone S01E05-06. S05 might have been the best episode so far. #tv


#### Installing Ubuntu 24.04 on a Dell Inspiron
 I wanted to install Ubuntu on a Dell laptop that had a factory reset Windows installation. Ran into two issues even before the installation could begin
* The first time, the Ubuntu installer complained that I needed to turn off Intel Rapid Storage technology. I found the option in the BIOS under SATA Mode and switched to AHCI, even though it's supposed to be for SATA drives (and the laptop had an SSD drive)
* After rebooting, the Ubuntu installer complained again saying I had to "turn off" Bitlocker encryption on my drives. This was even though I asked it to do a clean install. The workaround was to proceed with a "Manual" installation and delete all the partitions myself. It's a bit annoying and the instructions aren't very clear.

Anyway, after those steps I was able to get a clean Ubuntu installation on the laptop.

#### omakub

[Omakub — An Omakase Developer Setup for Ubuntu 24.04 by DHH](https://omakub.org/) #tools

Omakub was seriously impressive. I installed it immediately after installing Ubuntu and it was a smooth process, and gave me a desktop which was nearly all the way there in terms of how I would have customised it. The Gnome tiling features have come a long way since I last used them, and I actually had a bit of FOMO.

I am gonna study [the repo](https://github.com/basecamp/omakub) and copy some of the shell customizations and utlities for my Mac setup as well.

[The sweeping reorganisation of the brain in pregnancy, and why it matters](https://www.listennotes.com/e/840771752993423492eb34a2807a471e/) #podcasts

[GitHub - charmbracelet/mods: AI on the command line](https://github.com/charmbracelet/mods?tab=readme-ov-file) #llm #tools - This is a great tool which is kinda similar to `llm` tool by Simon Willison, except it is written in Go and can be downloaded as a single binary.

The real significance of Onam: [The Story of Maveli - Mavelinadu](https://mavelinaducollective.com/the-story-of-maveli/)

> It was a man named Sahodaran Ayyappan – a disciple of Narayana Guru, an Ezhava poet and anti-caste activist, who revived the story of Maveli in Kerala. He penned a version of the _Onapaattu_ (song of Onam) that is a critique of the brahmanism that has burgeoned in Kerala since the 8th century CE. He calls for a return to the time of Mavelinadu, before the feudal Hindu system infiltrated the land and created notions of purity and pollution.
> 
> To people belonging to marginalised castes in Kerala, especially avarna people, Mahabali remains a symbol of a past that was untainted by the disease of brahmanism. There have been a number of attempts to sanitise this story of its revolutionary importance, and to appropriate Onam into a Hindu festival, even rebrand it as “Vamana Jayanti”. This is an insult to the cultural legacy of Maveli, and we must reclaim this story, passed on to us through generations of oral tradition. We assert that Maveli is a symbol of our historical struggle against caste, and an egalitarian shramana tradition that lingers in our memory.