### 2025-04-05
#### Four Thousand Weeks by Oliver Burkeman - Cosmic Insignificance Therapy
This is my second time reading the book. Actually, it is the first because the first time I listened to it as an audio book. I am also reading this book right now as I slowly embark on a reset of long held belief and patterns of behavior around productivity and achievement. 

These excerpts from the chapter titled _Cosmic Insignifance Therapy_ really hit home.

> The hazard in any such discussion of “what matters most” in life, though, is that it tends to give rise to a kind of paralyzing grandiosity. It starts to feel as though it’s your duty to find something truly consequential to do with your time—to quit your office job to become an aid worker or start a space flight company—or else, if you’re in no position to make such a grand gesture, to conclude that a deeply meaningful life isn’t an option for you. On the level of politics and social change, it becomes tempting to conclude that only the most revolutionary, world-transforming causes are worth fighting for—that it would be meaningless to spend your time, say, caring for an elderly relative with dementia or volunteering at the local community garden while the problems of global warming and income inequality remain unsolved. Among New Age types, this same grandiosity takes the form of the belief that each of us has some cosmically significant Life Purpose, which the universe is longing for us to uncover and then to fulfill. 
> 
> Which is why it’s useful to begin this last stage of our journey with a blunt but unexpectedly liberating truth: that what you do with your life doesn’t matter all that much—and when it comes to how you’re using your finite time, the universe absolutely could not care less.

> It’s natural to find such thoughts terrifying. To contemplate “the massive indifference of the universe,” writes Richard Holloway, the former bishop of Edinburgh, can feel “as disorienting as being lost in a dense wood, or as frightening as falling overboard into the sea with no-one to know we have gone.” But there’s another angle from which it’s oddly consoling. You might think of it as “cosmic insignificance therapy”: When things all seem too much, what better solace than a reminder that they are, provided you’re willing to zoom out a bit, indistinguishable from nothing at all? The anxieties that clutter the average life—relationship troubles, status rivalries, money worries—shrink instantly down to irrelevance. So do pandemics and presidencies, for that matter: the cosmos carries on regardless, calm and imperturbable. Or to quote the title of a book I once reviewed: *The Universe Doesn’t Give a Flying Fuck About You*. To remember how little you matter, on a cosmic timescale, can feel like putting down a heavy burden that most of us didn’t realize we were carrying in the first place.

The evolutionary angle here is interesting

> These self-centered judgments are part of what psychologists call the “egocentricity bias,” and they make good sense from an evolutionary standpoint. If you had a more realistic sense of your own sheer irrelevance, considered on the timescale of the universe, you’d probably be less motivated to struggle to survive, and thereby to propagate your genes.

> Truly doing justice to the astonishing gift of a few thousand weeks isn’t a matter of resolving to “do something remarkable” with them. In fact, it entails precisely the opposite: refusing to hold them to an abstract and overdemanding standard of remarkableness, against which they can only ever be found wanting, and taking them instead on their own terms, dropping back down from godlike fantasies of cosmic significance into the experience of life as it concretely, finitely—and often enough, marvelously—really is.

#### Goya Journal - MTR in Bengaluru and Iftar in Lucknow
The latest edition of the Goya Journal newsletter landed in my inbox and a couple of article caught my eye - one about Lucknow, a city I grew up in and about MTR in Bengaluru.

* [From Sehri to Iftaar in the Streets of Lucknow — GOYA](https://www.goya.in/blog/from-sehri-to-iftaar-in-the-streets-of-lucknow)
* [The Story of Bengaluru's Iconic MTR, the Original Udupi Hotel — GOYA](https://www.goya.in/blog/celebrating-100-years-of-mtr-udupi-hotels)

#### Tiny Experiments by Anne-Laure Le Cunff
Started reading this book on a whim because I saw Oliver Burkeman recommended it. I didn't expect much, and it turned out to be not that different from a typical book in the self-help genre. But skimming it does yield some nice gems, like this quote from Ron Finley

> 