### 2025-10-28
#### AI in perf reviews
From Matt Levine's latest newsletter.

> On [the other hand](https://www.ft.com/content/84308936-e277-4ae0-b384-502d60375456):
> 
> > JPMorgan Chase has given employees the option to use its in-house artificial intelligence system to help write year-end performance reviews, underscoring how AI-generated text is proliferating in corporate America.
> > 
> > The tool allows employees to use the US bank’s large language model to generate a review based on prompts they give it, according to people familiar with the matter.
> > 
> > It is a shortcut to the often painstaking process of writing multiple reviews that are typically required by large companies.
> > 
> > Ahahaha. Obviously, yes, writing year-end performance reviews is perhaps the best-known example of intellectual drudgery in white-collar employment. Letting an AI do it is a strict improvement for the people writing the reviews. Then one assumes that the reviews are also read by AIs, and increasingly people’s salaries and job security will be set by AIs talking to AIs rather than by human beings. Still that’s a tradeoff a lot of people would take if it means not writing performance reviews.
> 

#### Forerunner to modern manga
[Ehon Mizu Ya Sora: A Forerunner of Modern Manga, 1780 - Flashbak](https://flashbak.com/ehon-mizu-ya-sora-479285/) #manga #japanese #illustrations

> These illustrations appear in _Ehon mizu ya sora_ (“Picture Book of Water and Sky”). Published in 1780 and illustrated by the Osaka artist known as Nichōsai (c. 1751-1803), the [Japanese](https://flashbak.com/tag/japan/) book caricatures famous kabuki actors (yakusha-e) from Osaka, Kyoto and Edo ([Tokyo](https://flashbak.com/tag/tokyo/)). The images are in a minimalist and humorous manner exemplary of the ‘toba-e’ style, a forerunner of modern manga.

#### Porcelain Handbags
[Freshly Unlocked: Porcelain Handbags? A Tale of Two Cultures and One Bold Career Leap](https://craftsmanship.substack.com/p/freshly-unlocked-porcelain-handbags)

> Unemployment gave Loquineau the push she needed to retrain. She enrolled at a _lycée professionnel_ (vocational high school) for two years of ceramics studies.
> 
> “People in France often look down on practical [crafts] courses,” she says, “but it’s the best teaching I’ve ever experienced.”
> 
> Loquineau nailed her vision with her first design project: a porcelain handbag. Bringing it to life took much longer, with many china bags shattered to smithereens along the way. The next iteration involved stitching the seams in leather to make the bags sturdier. Then, during a creative residency this past spring in Jingdezhen, China—[the world’s porcelain capital](https://www.unesco.org/en/creative-cities/jingdezhen#:~:text=listapps-,Jingdezhen,back%20more%20than%201%2C700%20years.)—she began to make bags from 100-percent porcelain.
> 
> Although many of the imperial factories in Jingdezhen closed in the 1900s, particularly under Mao (1949–54), craftspeople still have workshops all over town. For Loquineau, the Chinese designs of her bags are a way of fusing her two heritages, and finding a sense of belonging. And at last, her parents are proud, too, she says.