### 2025-02-02
I deactivated my X account for a month today. I definitely intend to be back on X, but let's see what this experiment yields.
#### Pataal Lok
[Paatal Lok (TV Series 2020– ) - IMDb](https://www.imdb.com/title/tt9680440/) #tv #india 

Bingewatched S2 of this excellent series. One of the rare instances where the second season was actually better than the first. Based in Nagaland, with large portions of the dialogue in the Nagamese language, it seems like a sincere attempt at portraying a region in India which is often largely ignored.

#### Photo Editing Using Lightroom
Surprisingly accessible video on how to edit photos using LIghtroom

[How a Pro Photographer Edits iPhone Photos \| Wirecutter](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/blog/how-a-pro-photographer-edits-iphone-photos/) #photography #editing #lightroom

#### Peak Tech Bro
[Have we hit peak tech bro?](https://www.ft.com/content/cd2966ed-c458-4485-87a8-a483b79b8457)

I don't believe we have reached Peak Tech Bro, but the article is interesting

> Wenfeng provides an extraordinary counter-narrative to a script that has become almost vaudeville to those outside the bubble. In recent years the Silicon Valley culture has become so swollen on its success and privilege that its proponents now look like players in a pantomime. 
> 
> Of course it’s not what you look like, but what you do that counts. But looking at Monday’s biggest financial losers from the fallout, you wonder if this strange parade of poseurs needed cutting down to size. Suddenly, Nvidia’s Jensen Huang, whose company endured a $589bn wipeout in market value on Monday, looks a bit foolish in his $9k Tom Ford lizard-effect coat. As does Sam Altman in his child-man sweatshirts. And Larry Ellison, Oracle’s own 80-year-old Peter Pan, with his deep-V sweaters and permatan. 
> 
> The cult of personality that has grown around these men, the posturing, the self-branding . . . Could it be that we have reached peak tech bro? Perhaps it is no coincidence that many of the “winners” on Monday — Warren Buffett and Apple’s Tim Cook among them — are known for a more conservative deportment, the type of guys who wear a suit and tie. Off with the hoodies and funky medallions. In with the stiff collars and sober suits. Even Elon Musk, who spent the last six months slobbing around in a badly fitting T-shirt, has adopted a new tailored look.

#### Demographic Decline
[](https://www.ft.com/content/2f4e8e43-ab36-4703-b168-0ab56a0a32bc)

> Meanwhile, a McKinsey report in January suggested many of the world’s richest economies, such as the UK, US and Japan, would need to at least double productivity growth to maintain historical improvements in living standards amid sharp falls in their birth rates.
> 
> Parts of Asia, especially China, and Latin American countries are particularly exposed. In 1995, 10 workers in eastern Asia supported one old-age person; by 2085, it is projected to be one to one.
> 
> 
> Politicians worry that they may be powerless to act, as social pressures on women undergo a profound change. Sarah Harper, professor of gerontology and director of the Oxford Institute of Population Ageing, said surveys of young women across the world, from Europe to south-east Asia, suggested a once built-in social obligation for women to reproduce — and an assumption on their part that if they could, they probably would have children — no longer existed.
> 
> Careers and increased gender equality are a part of that. “We have a whole cohort of women in high-income countries, but also in south-east Asia, and particularly east Asia . . . who have been educated in a very gender-neutral way,” said Harper. “They enter the workplace in a gender-neutral way, and then they become parents and suddenly, no matter how hard one tries, it’s not gender-neutral.” 
