### 2025-05-30
#### The Lost Art of Deep Reading
[The Humility of the Page: The Lost Ethics of Deep Reading](https://carlhendrick.substack.com/p/the-humility-of-the-page-the-lost) #reading 

> This is not just a private loss. It is a civic one. Without the capacity to dwell in difference, to engage with arguments we do not agree with, or to follow a thread longer than 280 characters, we become intellectually and morally brittle. We lose the very qualities that democratic life depends upon: empathy, nuance, deliberation.
> 
> Deep reading, particularly of literature, philosophy, and reflective prose, offers not just insight, but rehearsal. It trains us in the moral dispositions that public life requires: attention, imagination, restraint. To give ourselves to a complex text is to practice the patience we need for one another. It is a rehearsal in understanding before judging, listening before reacting. This is not merely a virtue. It is a survival skill for pluralistic, tolerant society.

#### Beauty is Pain
[Beauty is pain: The increasing masochism of self-optimisation \| Dazed](https://www.dazeddigital.com/beauty/article/66918/1/beauty-is-pain-the-increasing-masochism-of-self-optimisation) #beauty #feminism #culture 

> By now we’re all too familiar with the old adage ‘beauty is pain’. Traced back to at least 1800s France (‘_il faut souffrir pour être belle_’, or ‘one must suffer to be beautiful’), the phrase has been used for generations to justify the physical suffering many women endure to maintain society’s beauty standards. “If suffering is beauty and beauty is love, she cannot be sure she will be loved if she does not suffer”, as [Naomi Wolf wrote in](https://www.dazeddigital.com/beauty/article/45639/1/30-years-on-from-the-beauty-myth-we-ask-naomi-wolf-whats-changed) [_The Beauty Myth_](https://www.dazeddigital.com/beauty/article/45639/1/30-years-on-from-the-beauty-myth-we-ask-naomi-wolf-whats-changed) back in 1990, unpicking the ways a modern patriarchal society leverages beauty standards as a way to oppress women – even while gender equality grew in the eyes of the law.
> 
> We’ve seen this truth play out throughout history, through extreme grooming acts such as wearing corsets and fontanges, hairline plucking and foot binding, disordered eating, and surgeries. But it’s also embedded into the very standards themselves. Today’s trends for thinness – whether via [Ozempic](https://www.dazeddigital.com/ozempic) or #SkinnyTok – come with the same message as 00s heroin-chic, or the Victorian obsession with the aesthetics of tuberculosis. A malnourished body, a controlled and surveilled body, an addicted or diseased body – i.e. a body in pain – is an intrinsically feminine body, and a beautiful one at that.

Also learned a new term - *mewing*.

> What if modern beauty standards aren’t so much a war between genders, but a symptom of a system that preys on human weaknesses? It was philosopher Michel Foucault’s 1975 essay “[Discipline and Punish](https://monoskop.org/images/4/43/Foucault_Michel_Discipline_and_Punish_The_Birth_of_the_Prison_1977_1995.pdf)” that famously illuminated the state of the human body under capitalism. “The new discipline invades the body and seeks to regulate its very forces and operation, the economy and efficiency of its movements… to increase the utility of the body, to augment its forces,” he wrote. Today, the same rings true. In a [recent interview](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=SiBJeLrIoes) on Joshua Citarella’s _Doomscroll_, Professor Quinn Slobodian explains how we live under [neoliberal power](https://www.dazeddigital.com/artsandculture/article/943/1/daniel-monk-on-the-dreamworlds-of-neoliberalism) that upholds a capitalist economy by prioritising marketability at all costs. To survive in such a climate, it’s necessary that we, as members of this society, consider ourselves as marketable goods too. Ones that are as strong, healthy, beautiful, and optimised as possible.
> 
> Under capitalism, the idea that we need to suffer at work to both achieve success and enjoy our lives is one that is driven home constantly, and the same is true for aesthetics; the more committed we are and the more we suffer to achieve them, the more we deserve them. Think of how we might believe that the more a skin treatment stings and burns, the more effective it must be. Labour is a good thing, under this view, and required of all of us to take part in the economy.

#### AI Browsers
[The AI browser wars are about to begin](https://www.platformer.news/ai-web-browsers-openai-perplexity-opera/) #ai #browser

At this point after fully moving over to Arc, the biggest thing I want in a browser is the concept of Spaces.

Here are the AI browsers mentioned in the article:
• **Comet** (by Perplexity)
• **Arc** (by the Browser Company)
• **Neon** (by Opera)
• **OpenAI's browser** (in development)

#### The State of IaC
[Screaming in the Cloud \| The Latest State of IaC with Ido Neeman](https://share.transistor.fm/s/d9b93407) #iac #terraform 

#### Hypernormalization
[Systems are crumbling – but daily life continues. The dissonance is real \| Well actually \| The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/wellness/ng-interactive/2025/may/22/hypernormalization-dysfunction-status-quo?CMP=wellactually_email) #hypernormalization #institutions

> “Hypernormalization” is a heady, $10 word, but it captures the weird, dire atmosphere of the US in 2025.
> 
> First articulated in 2005 by scholar Alexei Yurchak to describe the civilian experience in Soviet Russia, hypernormalization describes life in a society where two main things are happening.
> 
> The first is people seeing that governing systems and institutions are broken. And the second is that, for reasons including a lack of effective leadership and an inability to imagine how to disrupt the status quo, people carry on with their lives as normal despite systemic dysfunction – give or take a heavy load of fear, dread, denial and dissociation.
> 
> “What you are feeling is the disconnect between seeing that systems are failing, that things aren’t working … and yet the institutions and the people in power just are, like, ignoring it and pretending everything is going to go on the way that it has,” Harfoush says in her video.

> Hypernormalization captures this juxtaposition of the dysfunctional and mundane.

> Naming an experience can be a form of psychological relief. “The worst thing in the world is to feel that you’re the only one who feels this way and that you are going quietly mad and everyone else is in denial,” says Caroline Hickman, a psychotherapist and instructor at the University of Bath specializing in climate anxiety. “That terrifies people. It traumatizes people.”
> 
> People who feel the “wrongness” of current conditions acutely may be experiencing some depression and anxiety, but those feelings can be quite rational – not a symptom of poor mental health, alarmism or a lack of proper perspective, Hickman says.

> “People don’t shut down because they don’t feel anything,” says Hickman. “They shut down because they feel too much.” Understanding this overwhelm is an important first step in resisting inaction – it helps us see fear as a trap.
> 
> Curtis points out that governments may intentionally keep their citizens in a vulnerable state of dread and confusion as “a brilliant way of managing a highly febrile and anxious society”, he says.

> In 2014, Ursula Le Guin accepted the National Book Foundation’s Medal for Distinguished Contribution to American Letters, saying: “We live in capitalism. Its power seems inescapable. So did the divine right of kings. Any human power can be resisted and changed by human beings. Resistance and change often begin in art, and very often in our art, the art of words.”
> 
> Harfoush reflects on this quote often. It underscores the fact that “this world we’ve created is ultimately a choice”, she says. “It doesn’t have to be like this.”
> 
> We have the research, technologies and wisdom to create better, more sustainable systems.
> 
> “But meaningful change requires collective awakening and decisive action,” says Harfoush. “And we need to start now.”

#### Longevity
[How ‘longevity’ became the new buzzword in health](https://on.ft.com/4dFdQ5r) #ageing 

> Hawkins says: “Those two things open up an interesting split in the longevity conversation. On the one hand you have this high-tech, science-driven approach where someone is actively throwing quite a lot of money and technology at understanding and optimising their own ageing process; and on the other, with the Blue Zones, it’s a radically back to basics approach to health. A lot of the reasons that we see people living longer in Blue Zones are really foundational things: like having strong community ties and eating relatively unprocessed diets.”

> Where once people would brag about being “crazy busy” or pulling an all-nighter at work, now logging eight hours of sleep on your Oura ring score carries more cachet. There’s been such a culture shift that it seems extraordinary now that live fast, die young was ever considered a cool rock’n’roll mantra. 
> 
> Hawkins says the Future Laboratory report was exploring “this idea that you and your quality of life are ultimately your greatest investment. It’s definitely a status symbol in that way. Perhaps in the future it won’t be so much about the designer hand bag, it’s more what treatments do you have access to, what means do you have to take control over your ageing.”

#### Anthropic and their focus on Coding AIs
[Claude-powered coding tools are poised to transform programming](https://www.understandingai.org/p/claude-powered-coding-tools-are-poised) #claude 

> An underrated AI story over the last year has been Anthropic’s success in the market for coding tools.
> 
> “We believe coding is extremely important,” said Anthropic engineer Sholto Douglas in an interview last week. “We care a lot about coding. We care a lot about measuring progress on coding. We think it’s the most important leading indicator of model capabilities.”
> 
> This focus has paid off. The company’s models have excelled at software engineering since last June’s release of Claude 3.5 Sonnet. Over the last year, a number of Claude-powered coding tools—including Cursor, Windsurf, Bolt.new, and Lovable—have enjoyed explosive growth. In February, Anthropic released a coding assistant called Claude Code that has become popular among programmers.
> 
> In media interviews, Anthropic employees have touted the extreme efficiency gains Claude has enabled for its own programmers.

