### 2025-01-03
Caught a bad sore throat. Looks like I will be staying in for a couple of days.
#### Meditations for Mortals Day Twenty Seven
This chapter is titled _C’est fait par du monde: On giving it a shot_

> The lesson, to reiterate, isn’t that you ought to start a religion. It’s that if that old windbag can do so, you can probably have a go at launching any project about which you’ve been experiencing self-doubt – and that there’s no reason why you can’t be the one to make a fortune, or a long-lasting difference to the world, as a result. Likewise, if you’ve been thinking of making a radical change in your life – traveling the world in midlife, say, or educating your kids outside the school system – there’s a solid chance you can scrabble together the resources and figure out a way. You won’t feel like you know what you’re doing. But nobody ever does; that’s just how it is for finite humans, attempting new things. The main difference between those who accomplish great things anyway and those who don’t is that the former don’t mind not knowing. They were not less flawed or finite than you. Everything they ever did was done by people.

#### Meditations for Mortals Day Twenty Eight
This chapter is titled  _What matters: On finding your way_

> And so I won’t be concluding here by revealing the meaning of life. But I do have thoughts.
> 
> The first is that it simply need not follow, from our cosmic insignificance as individuals, that our actions don’t matter. The idea that things only count if they count on the vastest scale is one more expression of our discomfort with finitude: accepting that they might count only transiently, or locally, requires us to face our limitations and our mortality. And so to avoid that unpleasantness, as the philosopher Iddo Landau has explained, we gravitate towards an unnecessarily grandiose standard of what matters – then get demoralized when our achievements don’t make the grade. We feel pressured to do something extraordinary with our lives, or to an extraordinary standard of merit, or in a way that’s applauded by an extraordinary number of people – even though it’s true by definition that only a few people can ever be extraordinary in any given domain. (If we could all stand out from the crowd, there’d be no crowd from which to stand out.) Why shouldn’t an anonymous career spent quietly helping a few people get to qualify as a meaningful way to spend one’s time? Why shouldn’t an absorbing conversation, an act of kindness, or an exhilarating hike get to count? Why adopt a definition that rules such things out?

#### Where to Work After 40
[Ask HN: Where to Work After 40? | Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=42573875) #software #jobs

Here is one of the top answers, but the whole thread is worth reading if you are in the same boat.

> I have a couple ideas for you from my own experience.
> 
> There's about a bajillion C/D+ stage 100-500 person software companies in any B2B vertical you could mention who would fight hard for your type of experience. Not necessarily SaaS click-and-drool tools for corporate drones, but unique and opinionated products that have some significant engineering innovation inside. Those companies have essentially no ability to attract talent organically, anyone interested in FANG would turn up their noses, and their number one problem is quality people. In many cases the CEO/CTO leadership is incredibly strong and smart; the colleagues are happy, motivated, intelligent, and disciplined; and the work/life balance is good for the middle aged. They're vital to their customers but under continuous competitive pressure so it is far from a snoozy place to serve out time - it's a mission and a struggle every day, things change often, the pace is fast. It can be very rewarding and compensation is decent. The tradeoff is the big exit is vanishingly unlikely.
> 
> Second idea is go into consulting/professional services. Not Accenture or anything horrible like that, but dozens of boutique/smaller firms with decently inspiring leadership and a very high standard of colleague. Work is variable in interest and environment, pressures are somewhat unfairly around whether you are billable or not which is not really in your control as an engineer.