### 2025-10-30
#### Never Ending Catchups
[Are we caught in a culture of never-ending catch-ups? \| Dazed](https://www.dazeddigital.com/life-culture/article/68983/1/so-excited-to-catch-up-culture-friendship-recaps-friends) #friendship #life 

So relatable

> ‘Catch-up culture’ encapsulates the modern hamster wheel of recapping your life to friends, instead of living and growing alongside them

> Michelle Elman, author of [_Bad Friend_](https://www.michelleelman.com/bad-friend/), uses the term catch-up culture to describe the hamster wheel of recapping your life to loved ones. “You go on these dinner dates, where you catch up with friends, but you are not experiencing life together,” she says. This may leave our friendships feeling stuck in time. “You only really pick up the meal where you left off last time, which could be months, and it almost feels stunted,” says Elman. “Your life is only ever since your last catch-up, and you aren’t talking about the bigger things in life, like your future, or the menial day-to-day.”
> 
> The shift from hangouts to scheduled check-ins is something that has always been part of transitioning into adulthood. Still, Elman believes the dissolving of group hangs, the loss of neighbourhoods and the rise of social media have all contributed to the culture of never-ending catch-ups today. “I think technology gives us the illusion that we are caught up on each other’s lives,” says Elman. And it’s true: it’s easy to use Instagram stories as conversation starters. Instead of the simple “How are you?” we’ve begun to engage in conversations with a level of presumed familiarity. By assuming that people will post updates or share them at the next catch-up session, we can lose small details that actually make many feel cared for, like how a meeting went and who you saw on a walk (or if you [saw a bird](https://www.tiktok.com/@mmmjoemele/video/7565253376682872094)).

> There’s an element of catch-up culture that feeds into heteronormative ideas around the nuclear family: the idea that we should be living lives with partners, and then reporting back to our friends about it. We’re encouraged to express when we feel lonely and disconnected in a romantic setting, but platonic relationships don’t always have the same in-built expectations. Meanwhile, many of the traditional measures of being “successful” – like living alone or with a partner – tear you further and further away from living in community with friends. There’s also a pressure that comes with living within a culture of “life updates”, especially for those who are in different stages and circumstances than their peers. “My friendships were slowly turning into transactional instances of scheduling morning coffees, similar to the corporate world,” says [Nicole So](https://www.instagram.com/nicoleso__/), a content creator in London. “It feels like I’m not growing alongside them as a person, and every time we catch up, I’m supposed to bring something new to the table.” Instead, So says she has started asking friends for a high, a low and something interesting they’ve done or learned recently. “I feel like it’s made my friendships more real and deeper,” she says.

> Fighting against catch-up culture isn’t easy because it involves challenging every element of what’s considered “productive” adulthood, where work, personal development and romantic relationships often take priority, while “unproductive” hours lounging around with friends fall by the wayside. It also may involve confronting our addiction to instant, Instagrammable gratification: a quick photo of dinner and the most outrageous story we can leave with. “If you have only a shorter period of time, you find quicker information more interesting,” says Mae. “In our day-to-day lives, it’s how fast-paced culture sneaks up on us.” It’s only after the big catch-up, once the major updates have settled, that we get into the minutia of actually intimate conversations.

#### Technology just makes our life faster, not easier or happier
[An open letter to all those building AI in 2025](https://www.asomo.co/p/an-open-letter-to-all-those-building-ai?hide_intro_popup=true) #ai #technology #happiness #benefits

> Furthermore, our technology doesn’t fundamentally make our lives easier from an economic standpoint. Rather, it mostly just [makes our lives faster](https://www.asomo.co/p/tech-doesnt-make-our-lives-easier). Technology is an accelerant, not a relaxant. That’s because, whenever a new affordance is unlocked, we are pushed into weaponising it within the competitive landscape of capitalism. The new tool doesn’t bring new leisure. Rather, it simply becomes a new thing that each of us must now have to continue surviving in a - now intensified - market struggle against others.
> 
> Long gone are the days when the Internet was a fun novelty that we could choose to use or not. We don’t experience childlike joy each morning when we see it up and running, but we certainly panic if it’s down. That’s because the Internet has sunk into the foundations of our life as infrastructure, without which we are now disabled. It doesn’t guarantee security, or - in itself - make any of us joyful or empowered. Having the Internet, or electricity, or a smartphone, simply means each of us gets to fight another day, and to not be _left behind_ by all the others trying to claw their way to illusory security in an ever-changing market.
> 
> All our technology doesn’t make us collectively thrive, relax, or live in abundance. If that were the case, we’d be the most peaceful and chilled out generation in history, without poverty or stress. But we all know that’s not the case.

#### You have to do the living yourself
[The Imperfectionist: You have to do the living yourself](https://ckarchive.com/b/k0umh6h56x947t6n33wn4aokxz577h8hgxwdn)

> And yet… No matter how many guardrails for good behaviour you erect, however much you stack things in your favour, in each moment, it’s still you showing up for your life. And there seems to be something crucial about _owning_ that fact – about actively committing and recommitting, again and again, to going in the direction you want to travel, instead of acting as a spectator to your life, watching to see whether the systems you’ve put in place perform as you’d hoped they would or not.