### 2025-12-10
#### MCP donated to Agentic AI Foundation (AAIF under the Linux Foundation
[Donating the Model Context Protocol and establishing the Agentic AI Foundation \\ Anthropic](https://www.anthropic.com/news/donating-the-model-context-protocol-and-establishing-of-the-agentic-ai-foundation)

The comments on the HN Post are brutal, and I suspect accurate.

> Anthropic wants to ditch MCP and not be on the hook for it in the future -- but lots of enterprises haven't realized its a dumb, vibe coded standard that is missing so much. They need to hand the hot potato off to someone else.

> MCP is overly complicated. I'd rather use something like [https://utcp.io/](https://utcp.io/)

> This sounds more like anthropic giving up on mcp than it does a good faith donation to open source.
>
> Anthropic will move onto bigger projects and other teams/companies will be stuck with sunk cost fallacy to try and get mcp to work for them.
>
> Good luck to everyone.

tbf I do believe MCP has its uses. It just hasnt lived up to its hype yet and it's  complicated to implement in a remote scenario. Moreover, for local MCPs using stdio, you might as well use regular tool calls instead

#### The Best Philosophy Lectures
[The Best Philosophy Lectures on YouTube](https://jaredhenderson.substack.com/p/the-best-philosophy-lectures-on-youtube)

Great to see Ellie Anderson on there. She is one of my favorite philosophy YouTubers.

#### On Brainrot
[On Brainrot](https://www.joanwestenberg.com/on-brainrot/) #europe #twitter #misinformation 

> The conservative commentator Erick-Woods Erickson observed on his Substack this week that Twitter has now convinced large swaths of the American right that Europe has been completely overrun by Muslims, that the United Kingdom is on the verge of becoming an Islamic nation, and that Sweden has fallen.
> 
> But reality tells an entirely different story. Muslims make up less than eight percent of Sweden's population. Non-natives account for less than thirteen percent of Germany. There are problems, certainly, real ones that deserve serious attention, but the online discourse had inflated them into an existential civilizational collapse that simply isn't happening at the imagined (and much tweeted about) scale.
> 
> Erickson's broader point is about what - precisely - has happened to our discourse and our decision-making. The Trump administration, he argues, has been captured by people whose entire education, whose entire worldview, whose entire paradigm of reality itself has been gleaned from Twitter.

> Erickson and I would likely disagree on 90% of the issues that come up on his podcast. But I think he's 100% on the money when it comes to this - our current epistemic disaster. He is quite accurately describing a phenomenon that has metastasized across the entire information ecosystem, across all political orientations, across geographic boundaries and cultural contexts.
> 
> We've entered the era of "brainrot" - though the term itself feels almost too glib // flippant for the scale of our cognitive and cultural crash out. Somewhere in the last decade and a half, something fundamental broke in how human beings process information, form beliefs, and engage with reality. We became a global fragmentation of doom scrolling, context-lacking, uncurious, blindly accepting, regurgitating masses.