### 2025-01-09
#### yt-dlp hacks
Found here: [q and qv zsh functions for asking questions of websites and YouTube videos with LLM](https://simonwillison.net/2024/Dec/19/q-and-qv-zsh-functions/#atom-everything) #ytdlp #youtube #hacks #llm 

```
yt-dlp -q --skip-download --convert-subs srt --write-sub --sub-langs "en" --write-auto-sub --print "requested_subtitles.en.url" "$url"
```

In plain English, this command will:

1. Find a video at the specified URL
2. Look for English subtitles (both manual and auto-generated)
3. Convert them to SRT format
4. Print out the URL where these subtitles can be found
5. Do all this quietly (minimal output) and without downloading the actual video

#### The placebo effect in therapy
[The Placebo Effect in Therapy (Part 1/2) - by Josh Zlatkus](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/the-placebo-effect-in-therapy-part) #therapy #mentalhealth 

Yet another article from living fossils which reinforces my beliefs about the efficacy of therapy (or the lack thereof)

> Despite these difficulties, thousands of studies have attempted to compare the effectiveness of various therapeutic techniques. Clinical psychology has asked no other question—_which therapy is best?_—with such fervor. And despite ongoing demands for better research, I think it is fair to say that if there _were_ significant and reliable differences in therapeutic approaches, researchers would have found them by now. They haven’t.[8](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/the-placebo-effect-in-therapy-part#footnote-8-153381769)
> 
> Research has, however, established therapy as a moderately effective solution to a wide range of mental problems. Perhaps a better question to ask at this point, then, is why does therapy work at all? If all or most techniques deliver some benefit, then clearly something they _share_ is responsible—for example, a safe environment, a collaborative relationship with a supposed expert, the structure of weekly or biweekly sessions, and, of course, the expectation that therapy will work. I.e., placebo.

They also point out that despite the moderately net-positive effects of therapy, the drawbacks are worth noting as well

> In _[A Hunter-Gatherer’s Guide to the 21st Century](https://www.amazon.com/Hunter-Gatherers-Guide-21st-Century-Challenges/dp/0593086880),_ Heying and Weinstein note that “The benefits (of new technologies) are obvious, but the hazards aren’t.” Freud’s introduction of the “talking cure,” and the proliferation of various techniques since, has probably been net-positive for the average person’s mental health. But there have been negatives, too. Mental health is increasingly behind a paywall, dispensed by experts, and accompanied by medication. The costs of these developments loom larger when a person recognizes that, well, therapy is not penicillin.
> 
> Another subtle but potentially pivotal change has taken place in the treatment of mental distress: it has become a scientific enterprise. While the benefits of this are obvious, the hazards—such as the dismissal of social, cultural, religious, personal, natural, creative, and even magical forms of healing—are not. Under the guidance of a field desperate to be scientific, clients of the mental industry rarely perceive alternate approaches to healing, which nevertheless predominated throughout most of human history. The therapist’s office is indeed constructed from the remnants of the family home, the church, the rotary club, and the proverbial bowling alley.

#### Property Rights
[Property Rights Are All in Your Head – Part I](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/property-rights-are-psychological) #property #rights

The article argues that property rights are not objective facts but rather psychological constructs based on shared beliefs and conventions. Unlike physical properties (such as the number of protons in an element), property rights exist only in people's minds and are enforced through social and moral agreements.

#### Abbamania
[Podcast: Chal Ravens and Thomas Jones · Abbamania](https://www.lrb.co.uk/podcasts-and-videos/podcasts/the-lrb-podcast/abbamania)

Absolutely fantastic podcast covering the history of the band Abba. Loved listening to every second of it. It was accompanied by this article: 