### 2025-01-19
#### Cursor vs Windsurf
Circa Jan 2025: [Windsurf vs Cursor: which is the better AI code editor?](https://www.builder.io/blog/windsurf-vs-cursor) #ai #code 

These things are evolving so fast that it's likely this will be outdated pretty soon.

#### TikTok Ban
[The Great Creator Reset - by Taylor Lorenz - User Mag](https://www.usermag.co/p/the-great-creator-reset)

> Since 2020, TikTok has [served as a major hub for progressive speech and activism](https://archive.ph/5IHAw#selection-1553.182-1561.161). The ban will deplatform thousands of progressive content creators and skew online discourse toward conservative ideologies. It will consolidate media influence within right leaning platforms like Meta and X. Over time, I believe this reconfiguration will permanently alter the political landscape of the creator economy.

…

> While the majority of news content creators across the social media landscape are conservative men, [a recent study found](https://www.usermag.co/p/the-majority-of-news-influencers) that TikTok is the _only_ platform where left-leaning news influencers outnumber right-leaning ones. TikTok also has more than double the concentration of news content creators who identify as LGBTQ+ or advocate for LGBTQ+ rights, and 73% of teens who identify as Democrats or lean left use TikTok, compared to 52% of teens who identify as Republican, [according to Pew Research](https://www.pewresearch.org/internet/2024/12/12/teens-social-media-and-technology-2024/?utm_source=chatgpt.com).

#### When to book budget travel
[Your Frugal Travel Calendar for the Year Ahead - The New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/01/13/travel/when-to-book-budget-travel.html) #travel #budget

Good overview of budget travel opportunities across the year. 

#### The Masculinity Crisis as a Crisis of Self-Esteem
[The ‘masculinity crisis’ is actually a crisis of self-esteem \| Psyche Ideas](https://psyche.co/ideas/the-masculinity-crisis-is-actually-a-crisis-of-self-esteem) #masculinity #loneliness #jobs 

Yet another wonderful intervention in the masculinity crisis space. I seem to come across a lot of this lately.

This part seems very relatable, esp when I conversations with people around me.

> Our culture is saturated with this way of seeing ourselves: we increasingly describe even prosaic aspects of life as an expression of our uniqueness. Choosing what to study, or finding a job, requires a lot of soul-searching these days. We are all implored to follow our _passion_, with the implication that everybody ought to have one; wanting a normal career that leaves enough free time to be happy feels to some like an admission of inadequacy.

> The only way to maintain self-esteem under modern conditions is to outperform others – but there’s _always_ somebody doing better. To be average is to be profoundly unsatisfied, because the fact that (even a handful of) others are doing much better reveals one’s (supposed) intrinsic inferiority. That this dynamic plays out under a model of capitalism characterised by intense income and wealth inequality exacerbates the problem.



> My contention is that the competition for self-esteem, and the widespread lack of it that results, is to blame for much of what we attribute to the crisis in masculinity. Men are frustrated because they feel like failures, and they feel like failures because – given the way our society distributes self-esteem – almost everybody has to feel like a failure. Men are increasingly angry and disengaged from mainstream society not merely because they don’t know what manhood means in the absence of privilege, nor because a liberal elite is propagating behavioural norms that suppress their masculine nature. Rather, being angry and disengaged is the natural human response to a society that makes one feel impotent and inferior, and affords a sense of control to very few. (This raises the question of why women might respond differently to the self-esteem crisis; I suggest that the interplay between patriarchal norms and the competition for self-esteem might mean women experience the same frustration, but respond differently.)

and finally, what could be a possible solution

> If the competition for self-esteem is the problem, what is the solution? We need to refocus our attention on widening access to self-esteem. This means ensuring access to what we’re accustomed to seeing as a basic standard of living: stable employment, decent housing and healthcare.
> 
> It also means, as Michael Walzer, Timo Jütten and other political philosophers have argued, refocusing our shared standards of success. These are called the ‘standards of contribution’ in the academic literature: the standards one must meet to feel like one is a success, who has contributed properly to society.
> 
> We must take every opportunity to venerate human achievement in all its diverse forms: we should refocus our attention on caring for loved ones, creating art, engaging in activism and local politics, and volunteering in the community. This can start with reform to the education system and the values it inculcates in children. Finally, we should remind ourselves how much anybody’s success is down to luck (as Michael Sandel argued in his book _The Tyranny of Merit_, 2020). This isn’t important just because of its implications for the distribution of material goods; reflecting on the importance of luck can function as a kind of meditative exercise, to dampen the competition for self-esteem.