### 2025-01-04
#### Conversational Doorknobs
Somebody complimented me on a conversation I had in a group and said they loved the flow of it, and that I should do it more often.

I am not sure how good of a conversationalist I am, but I have definitely gotten better at it over the years with a lot of work. One of the key ideas that helped me a lot, after I first came across it a few years ago is the idea of a "conversation doorknob".

[Good conversations have lots of doorknobs](https://www.experimental-history.com/p/good-conversations-have-lots-of-doorknobs) #conversations

> Givers think that conversations unfold as a series of invitations; takers think conversations unfold as a series of declarations. When giver meets giver or taker meets taker, all is well. When giver meets taker, however, giver gives, taker takes, and giver gets resentful (“Why won’t he ask me a single question?”) while taker has a lovely time (“She must really think I’m interesting!”) or gets annoyed (“My job is so boring, why does she keep asking me about it?”).

> When done well, both giving and taking create what psychologists call _[affordances](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Affordance)_: features of the environment that allow you to do something. Physical affordances are things like stairs and handles and benches. Conversational affordances are things like digressions and confessions and bold claims that beg for a rejoinder. Talking to another person is like rock climbing, except you are my rock wall and I am yours. If you reach up, I can grab onto your hand, and we can both hoist ourselves skyward. Maybe that’s why a really good conversation feels a little bit like floating.
> 
> What matters most, then, is not how much we give or take, but whether we offer and accept affordances. Takers can present big, graspable doorknobs (“I get kinda creeped out when couples treat their dogs like babies”) or not (“Let me tell you about the plot of the movie _Must Love Dogs_…”). Good taking makes the other side want to take too (“I know! My friends asked me to be the godparent to their Schnauzer, it’s so crazy” “What?? Was there a ceremony?”). Similarly, some questions have doorknobs (“Why do you think you and your brother turned out so different?”) and some don’t (“How many of your grandparents are still living?”). But even affordance-less giving can be met with affordance-ful taking (“I have one grandma still alive, and I think a lot about all this knowledge she has––how to raise a family, how to cope with tragedy, how to make chocolate zucchini bread––and how I feel anxious about learning from her while I still can”).

#### Pimosa - a video editing app
[Pimosa - Simple Video, Photo & Music Editing Tools in one app.](https://pimosa.app/) #tools #video

This showed up via Hacker News, and I was intrigued because I have been looking at a simple entry point to editing some videos I have collected in the last year or so.

The video screenshots did a really good job at portraying the simplicity of the tool. Hope to try it sometime soon.

#### Meditations with Mortals Epilogue
Finally, we have come to the end of the book. It has been a blast reading it, and I have taken away a lot of things from it.

> If you’ve accompanied me this far, I trust it won’t come as a devastating shock to learn that, notwithstanding this book’s subtitle, no one should expect to fully embrace their limits, confront their mortality and find psychological freedom in a mere four weeks. Self-help promises such as ‘six weeks to six-pack abs’ or ‘thirty days to a stress-free you’ may get broken far more often than they’re kept, but when it comes to imperfectionism, it’s worse, because by definition the journey is never complete. Were I to suggest that completing it might be possible, I’d simply be fueling the same old fantasy of sorting your life out, in a marginally more sophisticated way. The truth is that you’ll never be certain that an unmeetable challenge or regrettable choice isn’t just around the next corner, or that the projects I hope you’re newly energized to dig into will meet with success. The spiritual teacher Joan Tollifson calls our yearning for finality ‘the compulsion to closure,’ a sort of tic, eminently forgivable, but which the world can never satisfy – and which we might gradually therefore learn to relax, so as to more wholeheartedly take our place in, and, as part of, the unending flow of reality.
> 
> Besides the fact that you shouldn’t expect to transform your life in four weeks, it can be startlingly liberating to consider that in some domains, you might never change it at all – and that that’s fine. The psychotherapist Bruce Tift suggests the following reflection: pick the trait that bothers you the most about yourself or your life – your tendency to procrastinate or get distracted, perhaps, or your short fuse, or your proneness to gloomy moods – and then ask yourself what it feels like to imagine that some version of it might dog you to the end of your days. What if I’ll always have anxious reactions – the clench in the stomach, the sharp intake of breath – to minor events that don’t warrant them? My first response is to feel crestfallen; but soon thereafter comes relief. I get to give up on that futile struggle, which means I needn’t wait for it to be won before diving into reality. Maybe I never needed to change in order to justify my existence. Maybe I was always up to the task of building a meaningful life.
