### 2025-07-31
#### Slop as a way of life
[Slop as a Way of Life - by Drew Austin - Kneeling Bus](https://kneelingbus.substack.com/p/slop-as-a-way-of-life) #slop #ai #enshittification 

> Yesterday morning, I walked past the small grocery store on my block and heard REM’s “It’s the End of the World as We Know It” emanating from inside. I’d usually ignore that kind of thing but here it suddenly struck me as absurd—it was 9:30 am on a weekday and there was absolutely no reason for that song to be coming out of an empty grocery store. Not even annoying or dissonant, it was just the least appropriate accompaniment for the moment, in its own subtle way. And of course there was no reason for it—no person had chosen the song and the process that led to it playing then had no audience in mind.
> 
> …
> 
> The popularity of “slop” as a concept points to something significant about how we experience digital culture in 2025, just as “algorithms” did last decade. In each case, the term’s usage gets less precise as it’s overloaded with everything we hate about the internet. And while the word itself becomes less meaningful, it reveals more about how we feel. It’s tempting to define slop as Potter Stewart did pornography (“I know it when I see it”) but that would just further obfuscate an already murky concept. Today, “slop” implies AI more than anything else, and primarily refers to the AI-generated content that is flooding the internet. The subtext is that slop is being dumped on us against our will—that it’s something that happens _to_ us—but that lets us off the hook far too easily. Most of the slop we see is still made and distributed by real people, often with no AI assistance. If AI is able to suddenly pump slop into our environment it’s only because we already turned on the faucets ourselves. Just think about all the garbage content that people you actually know send you via text, or the DMs that feel like they’re from bots but are actually from real people driven by platform incentives (Instagram, LinkedIn, Facebook, etc). The arrival of AI slop is simply the culmination of a long process of cultural slopification, and one of AI’s unexpected functions has been to launder the human slop so we can pretend we didn’t create it.
>
> I call the REM song I heard slop because it’s a good example of this process: The automation of personal music listening, a process accelerated by Spotify but long underway in places like the supermarket aisles, is ultimately a process of “learning to care less about details and perceive distinct things as interchangeable,” as I [wrote](https://kneelingbus.substack.com/p/slopify-wrapped) last year. In slop utopia, there is no right or wrong place or time for anything to happen, because context has been eliminated. The end result of this process, as Liz Pelly has [described](https://harpers.org/archive/2025/01/the-ghosts-in-the-machine-liz-pelly-spotify-musicians/), is an opportunity for AI content creation, which barely registers because the human-made content with which it coexists has already become fungible. The appearance of AI slop is not something new, just a sign that an ongoing slopification process has been completed.

#### The Living Fossils Compendium
[The Fossil Record So Far - by The Living Fossils](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/the-fossil-record-so-far) #evo-psych #psychology #mentalhealth #evolution 

The Living Fossils blog is one of the most high-value blogs I have discovered in the last year or so. They just posted a recap of their posts under the most common thematic categories. This is a great set of links!

* **Emotions Measure & Motivate**: _Thesis: Emotions can be understood as adaptations designed to help humans measure important information and motivate action that would have been adaptive over the course of human evolution._
* **Evolutionary Mismatch**: _Thesis: Much of modern psychological suffering stems from the mismatch between the environments we evolved for and the ones we live in—far more than clinical psychology tends to acknowledge._
* **Bashing the Academy**: _Thesis: Academic psychology, clinical psychology, and psychiatry—not to mention academia more broadly—are overdue for reform. Clinical psychology, in particular, needs a genuinely scientific framework. And no, we don’t mean CBT—we mean evolution._