### 2025-01-10
#### Flaking
[‘People feel they don’t owe anyone anything’: the rise in ‘flaking’ out of social plans | Social etiquette | The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/lifeandstyle/2025/jan/07/flaking-out-of-social-plans)

> Many dozens of respondents on the receiving end of flaking ascribed the phenomenon to growing levels of social fragmentation because of social media and smartphones, a general sense of apathy in the population and an increasing normalisation of inconsiderate behaviour in the interest of personal needs and desires.
> 
> Being able to just send a quick text to cancel, various people said, meant people did not have to face those they stood up and incentivised late cancellations.

> “Increasingly with gen Z and millennials there is a fetishisation of introversion,” said Andrew, 23, from Brisbane who works in telecoms sales. “Web comics and memes make a moral comparison to extroverts, who are supposedly loud, obnoxious people. Introverts are [depicted as] moral people who own cats and crochet. But our generation is also experiencing [record high loneliness](https://www.forbes.com/sites/kianbakhtiari/2023/07/28/gen-z-the-loneliness-epidemic-and-the-unifying-power-of-brands/), so I think we shouldn’t praise choosing loneliness or celebrate \[extreme levels of\] introversion.”

#### Cognitive Load in Software Projects
[Cognitive load is what matters](https://minds.md/zakirullin/cognitive) #software #complexity

> Sometimes we feel confusion going through the code. Confusion costs time and money. Confusion is caused by high _cognitive load_. It's not some fancy abstract concept, but rather **a fundamental human constraint**. It's not imagined, it's there and we can feel it.

> When reading code, you put things like values of variables, control flow logic and call sequences into your head. The average person can hold roughly [four such chunks](https://github.com/zakirullin/cognitive-load/issues/16) in working memory. Once the cognitive load reaches this threshold, it becomes much harder to understand things.

Great breakdown of how cognitive load can creep into a software project and how it's important to keep it to a minimum when writing code. Also love the references back to [John Ousterhout's book](https://www.amazon.com/Philosophy-Software-Design-John-Ousterhout/dp/1732102201)

#### self-authorship
[character - by Elaine - manners & mystery](https://elainewrites.substack.com/p/character) #self-help #purpose 

> In adolescence, we develop a psychological makeup shaped by cultural norms and expectations, which is what Robert Kegan calls the “socialized mind,” the third order of consciousness in his theory of adult development. This is when parents feel like their job is done because their kids have gone from acting like selfish brats to becoming responsible adults. About 35% of adults undergo a further transformation later, which is the shift from the socialized mind of adolescence and early adulthood to the “self-authoring mind.” This is where people develop “an inner seat of judgement” to evaluate external expectations. Instead of letting their culture dictate their beliefs, they author their own identity, their own set of beliefs, and develop personal authority.
> 
> You go through life doing what’s expected of you—first in school, then in your first job, your first serious relationship—until one day you wake up and ask, “Do I really have to do this?” Do I have to work at this company? Do I have to hang out with this person? Do I have to go to this party? And the answer is no. We are freer than we give ourselves permission to believe.
> 
> …
> 
> So why do we spend so much of our limited time doing things we don’t actually want to do? I think the problem isn’t that we don’t know what we want. It’s that pursuing the things we want necessitates giving up on what we think we should want, thereby renouncing an identity that made us feel safe for 20+ years, and it’s hard not to view that relinquishing as a threat to our sense of belonging, rather than an evolution toward a higher purpose. Kegan observes that the departure from the socialized mind toward the self-authoring mind is fraught with “terror and anticipated loss.”

#### Japanese clutter
[The life-changing magic of Japanese clutter | Aeon Essays](https://aeon.co/essays/the-life-changing-magic-of-japanese-clutter)

> Tsuzuki dismissed the West’s obsession with Japanese minimalism as ‘some Japanophile’s dream’ in the introduction to the English translation of _Tokyo: A Certain Style_ (1999)_._ ‘Our lifestyles are a lot more ordinary,’ he explained. ‘We live in cozy wood-framed apartments or mini-condos crammed to the gills with things.’ Yet more than three decades after Tsuzuki tried to wake the dreaming Japanophile, the outside world still worships Japan for its supposed simplicity, minimalism and restraint. You can see it in the global spread of meticulously curated Japanese cuisine, the deliberately unadorned concrete of modernist architects like Tadao Andō, and even through minimalist brands like Muji – whose very name translates into ‘the absence of a brand’ in Japanese.
> 
> Millions around the world continue to turn to Japanese gurus for help in purging their diets, closets and living spaces of all but the most essential items. Books like Marie Kondo’s _The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up: The Japanese Art of Decluttering and Organizing_ (2011) and Fumio Sasaki’s _Goodbye, Things: The New Japanese Minimalism_ (2015) reframe clutter as a dire threat to mental health and spiritual growth. They have become colossal hits in the United States and other countries. However, as the world turns to Japan to tidy up, it’s important to remember that these books were originally intended for Japanese readers; they weren’t written for the world outside. If Japan truly were a minimalist paradise, why would it need Kondos and Sasakis in the first place?

#### Website to Markdown
[My Favorite Website to Markdown Tools For LLMs](https://brentter.com/notes/my_favorite_website_to_markdown_tools_for_llms/?ref=labnotes.org) #markdown #website #converter