### 2025-01-11
#### Building Effective Agents
[Building effective agents - Anthropic](https://www.anthropic.com/research/building-effective-agents) #ai #agents #workflows

Great article by Anthropic cutting through the bullshit and hype of AI agents.

> "Agent" can be defined in several ways. Some customers define agents as fully autonomous systems that operate independently over extended periods, using various tools to accomplish complex tasks. Others use the term to describe more prescriptive implementations that follow predefined workflows. At Anthropic, we categorize all these variations as **agentic systems**, but draw an important architectural distinction between **workflows** and **agents**:
> 
> - **Workflows** are systems where LLMs and tools are orchestrated through predefined code paths.
> - **Agents**, on the other hand, are systems where LLMs dynamically direct their own processes and tool usage, maintaining control over how they accomplish tasks.

#### NYT Amplifier: Bob Dylan Wasn’t the Only 1965 Newport Highlight. Hear 14 More
[Bob Dylan Wasn’t the Only 1965 Newport Highlight. Hear 14 More. - The New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/01/07/arts/music/amplifier-newsletter-1965-newport-folk-festival.html) #music #playlist 

Link to [YouTube Music Playlist](https://music.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLu_RmAJBNiIIuj2zF6MYrvdC-rVMroi2c&si=MYZejmjak1d_aGBf)

#### Modern Internet Culture Seen Through The Lens of British Politics
[What Elon Musk’s tweets about sex abuse reveal about British politics](https://www.economist.com/britain/2025/01/09/what-elon-musks-tweets-about-sex-abuse-reveal-about-british-politics) #internet #culture

>  
> In 2004, two years before the launch of X (then Twitter), Michael Goldhaber, an American thinker, published an essay arguing that the internet would produce a new type of human, just as printing had. _Homo typographicus_ would be followed by _Homo interneticus._ His “mentality significantly altered” by the effects of intense internet use, _interneticus_ would be unmoored from time and space, disrespectful of old sources of authority and facing a constant battle for his attention.

Found the original article: [The mentality of Homo interneticus: Some Ongian postulates | First Monday](https://firstmonday.org/ojs/index.php/fm/article/view/1155)

In this comparision Keir Starmer is _typographicus_, and Kemi Badenoch is _interneticus_

> _Interneticus_, wrote Mr Goldhaber, would attach himself to new communities based on affinities “unshackled by space, unbounded by borders”. So the causes that most animate Ms Badenoch are litigated online and heavily influenced by America: gender identity; critical race theory; diversity, equity and inclusion schemes. She wants her party to think deeply about the civilisational questions the internet poses, such as the loss of presumption of innocence that emerges from online “pile-ons”.

…

> Sir Keir was baffled: had her party not been in power for 14 years, while reports into the abuse gathered dust? Why was she tweeting about it now? Yet, wrote Mr Goldhaber, the internet would erode notions of time, because unlike musty books which immediately betray their age, pixelated text is continually refreshed. _Interneticus_ would live in a “space devoid of chronological ordering…an ever-changing now”. And so the court judgments of over a decade ago pinging round X seem as urgent as if they had been written yesterday.

…

> A decade ago another prime minister, David Cameron, crowed that his defeated rivals had tangled themselves in online debates: “Britain and Twitter—they’re not the same thing.” Or as Mr Goldhaber put it: “For _Homo interneticus,_ cyberspace is most of the real world, and the rest is an appendage of it.“

###