### 2025-02-23
#### What is good coffee
[What Is "Good" Coffee? The Dark Side Of Flavour! - YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IsUHZ8TZmHk) #coffee #flavor #taste

Great video on how subjective coffee tasting is, and how you may not be crazy for not liking that expensive packet of beans.

ChatGPT Summary: [ChatGPT - Coffee Quality and Preferences](https://chatgpt.com/share/67bacde5-ec40-8012-a16c-41b0846c799e)

#### Garbage
[Garbage — Ridgeline issue 203](https://craigmod.com/ridgeline/203/)

Craig Mod has a great piece on social norms around garbage in Japan. Most Japanese public spaces don't have a lot of garbage bins and you are supposed to carry your own garbage.

> The first time I walked into a random shop in Tokyo and asked to throw away something (a Starbucks cup, perhaps? an item I did not buy from the shop itself) was twenty-five years ago. The owner looked at me like I had just asked him if I could jump on his desk and take a shit. I’ve never bothered a shop with my garbage since.

…

> In Kamakura, Starbucks has big signs instructing non-Japanese customers to please not leave their take-away cups in random locations. (Apparently this was becoming endemic.) There are no garbage cans in Kamakura, and, indeed, if you are buying a coffee to go, you will be responsible for that receptacle for, potentially, a very long time. This is your grandé-sized hair shirt to bear.

…

> This obsession with the immediate “unburdening” of a thing _you_ created is common in non-Japanese contexts, but I posit: The Japanese way is the correct way. Be an adult. Own your garbage. Garbage responsibility is something we’ve long since abdicated not only to faceless cans on street corners (or just all over the street, as seems to be the case in Manhattan or Paris), but also faceless developing countries around the world. Our oceans teem with the waste from generations of averted eyes. And I believe the two — local pathologies and attendant global pathologies — are _not_ not connected.

…

> Personally, I don’t _love_ carrying my garbage around with me, but I recognize that it wouldn’t exist without my intervention. Nobody ran up and asked me to hold an empty cup. I thoughtlessly bought something. Thoughtlessly consumed it, and now I have to hold onto the detritus for a little while? Great. It’s easy. Easy to embrace that modicum of responsibility for your own waste. This is my protest song, the world’s lamest: I will attend to my garbage without complaint. Maybe give it a try next time you’re in Japan? It’s very exciting — to realize you will not be killed by your garbage, that holding a Snickers’ wrapper will not drain your crypto reserves, that not having piles of everyone else’s garbage all around is quite a nice bonus when walking through a city. And it might just keep you from buying unnecessary junk.

#### Ideological Propaganda by Way of the Algorithm
[how the algorithm keeps you under control - by Adam Aleksic](https://etymology.substack.com/p/how-the-algorithm-keeps-you-under) #algorithms #ideology #culture #sociology 

> In their 1947 _Dialectic of Enlightenment_, the philosophers Theodor Adorno and Max Horkheimer [voiced their concerns](https://www.marxists.org/reference/archive/adorno/1944/culture-industry.htm) about how the popular media of the time_—_film, radio, and magazines_—_primarily functioned to pacify the general population.
>
> To them, the “culture industry” was a tool to both occupy our senses and influence our attitudes toward the world. Through the mass production of entertainment, the media-makers are able to dominate people’s leisure “from the time they leave the factory in the evening to the time they clock in again the next morning.” The flat, repetitive nature of the content, meanwhile, enforces social structures by pushing the same conformist narratives, and the movie-goer never questions anything since he “sees the world outside as an extension of the film he has just left.”
>
> Adorno and Horkheimer would probably be losing their shit today.

…

> Notably, all of this content is _user-generated_. There’s no bogeyman imposing cultural messaging from the top down. Rather, conformity is ingrained into the very structure of social media. The act of participating on TikTok, for example, schematizes certain assumptions like valuing follower counts or view counts. This ties one’s self-worth to what goes viral on the algorithm, incentivizing the creation of ever more content.
> ch
> If you as the viewer enjoy a meme, you mentally legitimize the algorithm that brought it to you. If you engage by liking or commenting, you even help it crowdsource information about the type of audience that should receive that meme in the future. To exist on social media at all is to opt into a [technofeudalistic](https://www.wired.com/story/yanis-varoufakis-technofeudalism-interview/) fiefdom where we individually and collectively feed platforms the information they need to keep us docile.

#### Thoreau's idea of success
[How to REALLY Avoid Living a Life of Quiet Desperation | The Art of Manliness](https://www.artofmanliness.com/character/advice/really-avoid-living-life-quiet-desperation/)

> True success in Thoreau’s view thus cannot be understood in terms of monetary or conventional values, or even in the kinds of epic adventures that show well on Instagram.
> 
> A dedicated homebody, he rarely traveled far from home. He refused to dedicate himself full-time to his father’s pencil manufacturing business, though he possessed the mechanical acumen and inventiveness that could have turned him into something of an industrial magnate. Instead, he structured his life to allow for as little work, and as much writing and meditative leisure as possible. And even when it came to that writing, while he did care about his works being read and praised (at least by those he respected), he was unwilling to alter them in order to court a broader audience. Indeed, Thoreau’s friend and mentor, Ralph Waldo Emerson, thought that if his protégé had one flaw, it was a lack of ambition.
> 
> Yet in some ways this criticism misses the mark. For while Thoreau wasn’t ambitious for the traditional status markers held up by society, he was ambitious for something else: life. Life at its very essence. Life in its fullest form.


>  Social theorist Gregg Easterbrook astutely calls this process of getting what we want, but never feeling like we have enough, “abundance denial.”
> 
> Compounding this cycle of dissatisfaction — and the desperation it produces — is the fact that attaining external desires often costs money. Money that can only be procured in trade for one’s time and labor. And this frequently isn’t the only payment required: the work one must perform frequently demands compromises to one’s individual values, principles, and dreams. It demands a loss of independence; even the entrepreneur must defer to the whims of the marketplace.
> 
> Thus, the more you want, the more you have to work to pay for it, the less autonomous you become, and the further removed you get from the beating heart of life.
> 
> Thoreau thus rightly argued that “the cost of a thing” was not simply a matter of its price tag, but “the amount of what I will call life, which is required to be exchanged for it, immediately or in the long run.”