### 2025-10-12

#### Helga Paris on Feminism and Equality
[Helga Paris: Women at Work - The 'Unforeseen Beauty' of East German Factory Workers In 1984 - Flashbak](https://flashbak.com/helga-pariss-women-at-work-478738/) #photography #feminism

> “From the very beginning, a different self­ image prevailed in the field of photography. In the west, the new artistic fields such as photography and video were often utilised by women from a feminist perspective. This was different in the GDR. Here, equality prevailed. Women in the garment business worked just as hard as their male colleagues. Feminism sees men as enemies – it’s an ideology. We women in the GDR had nothing against men; on the contrary, we had equal rights. We demanded equal rights when necessary, and we got them. Did that happen in the west? Probably not. That’s embarrassing”
>
> **– Helga Paris**

#### Daniel Kahneman chooses assisted suicide
["It's time to go": Nobel Prize winner opted for suicide in Switzerland \| blue News](https://www.bluewin.ch/en/entertainment/nobel-prize-winner-opts-for-suicide-in-switzerland-2619460.html) #death

I wish more people in the future have the same options as Kahneman had.

> Although Daniel Kahneman neither suffered from dementia nor required dialysis, he said he noticed an "increase in mental lapses and a decline in his kidney function".
> 
> His decision seems to have been based less on his famous scientific thinking and more on a very personal feeling. He wanted to retain his autonomy until the end and to shape his own end.
> 
> Kahneman knew that many would see his decision as premature. But that was exactly what he intended, he wrote: If you wait until a life is "obviously no longer worth living", it is already too late.
> 
> Therefore, his move was inevitably premature. He had spoken about it with some people close to him, and even though they initially resisted, they had finally accepted his decision.

#### Lessons from Japan's Hikikomori
[What do Japan’s hikikomori reveal about our lonely world? \| Psyche Ideas](https://psyche.co/ideas/what-do-japans-hikikomori-reveal-about-our-lonely-world) #isolation #loneliness 

> In this new period of virtualisation, precarious labour and vanishing communities, hikikomori reveal the underlying logic of our changing societies: participation counts only when it is tied to productivity. They are not simply outliers who have cut themselves off from the world, revealing the extremes of isolation. Instead, they show us the values that many of us share in our age of overwork and loneliness. That’s how Japan’s hikikomori, once dismissed as anomalies, now appear as mirrors reflecting the estrangements felt by countless others – regardless of whether they have a job.

#### Coffee Prices
[Hell Hath No Fury Like a Coffee Drinker in 2025](https://archive.ph/6DpNq)

I recently felt the sticker shock of a 250g bag of coffee beans here in Berlin. At one hip coffee shop, they were selling between 15€ to 20€. 

I also realised one of the reasons I was paying far less for coffee in India was because I was paying for locally grown beans. I am yet to encounter any coffee shop in Berlin selling beans from India.

> Roasted coffee prices at the grocery store are up 22% in the past year, more than any other item tracked by the government. Prices at some coffee shops are going up too. $10 latte, anyone?
> 
> Lots of things are more expensive, but coffee isn’t like cereal or chicken. The daily fix is all that’s keeping millions from a throbbing headache and foul mood. So while people may wince at the price, they’re buying it anyway–and reserving the right to rant. 
> 

> The price increases are due to bad weather in the world’s coffee-growing regions and the Trump Administration’s tariffs.
> 
> Lawmakers in September introduced bipartisan legislation that would exempt coffee products from tariffs, invoking historical outrage over the price of another beverage staple. “Americans started a revolution over a tax on tea,” said Ro Khanna (D., Calif.). “If you drink coffee every morning, how can you not be mad about that?”
> 
> Coffee drinkers exemplify a paradox at the heart of the U.S. economy. Consumers feel pessimistic, worried about the job market and inflation. Though they may trade down in some ways—including by making coffee at home—they continue to spend more overall, keeping the economy chugging. 
> 
> Americans spent $12.7 billion on packaged coffee in the past year, up from $12 billion a year earlier, according to NielsenIQ.

