### 2025-09-19

#### A string of beads
[The Imperfectionist: A string of beads](https://ckarchive.com/b/75u7h8h699kkzb6rgg7rlawl85666tnhordn0)

> Obviously, you don’t need me to tell you these are dark, unsettling, apocalyptic times. Almost everyone in my British and American social circles seems rattled by the shooting of Charlie Kirk and the ensuing crackdown on expression in the US, and/or by the resurgence of nativism and anti-migrant feeling in the UK, all of it unfolding on top of ongoing horrors in Gaza, climate instability, and the possibility that artificial intelligence might kill us all.
> 
> There’s an unmoored sense of anxiety, a deer-in-the-headlights paralysis – the feeling that there’s little to be done about any of this, yet that it’s impossible to concentrate on anything else instead. Even people with a talent for shutting out the headlines seem troubled by a sense of reality crowding in on them, or maybe pulling the rug from beneath them, making it harder than ever to pursue the projects and relationships that add up to a rich and absorbing life.
> 
> I trust you won’t be shocked to learn that I don’t have a conclusive answer for dealing with any of this. But there’s an image I find surprisingly liberating – actively useful and perspective-shifting, I mean, not merely consoling – that’s worth unpacking here. It’s the idea of seeing the actions you take from hour to hour, through the day, as a matter of **threading beads onto a string, as if you were making a necklace.**

#### Listeners Can't Remember the Names of Their Favorite Songs and Artists
[Listeners Can't Remember the Names of Their Favorite Songs and Artists](https://www.honest-broker.com/p/listeners-cant-remember-the-names) #music #algorithms 

> This has a strange side effect. Musicians are turned into influencers—because their social media success is more likely to generate “follows” instead of “streams.”
> 
> There was once a big difference between a musician and a fashion model or comedian or pundit. But now they all compete against each other on the same reels for the same audience.
> 
> So here are the new rules of the game:
> 
> 1. Artists no longer exist.
> 2. They have been turned into _content creators_ for tech companies.
> 3. The platforms have an insatiable appetite for content—but they don’t care if it’s music or a goofy joke or a violent crime or anything else that gets attention for a few seconds.
> 4. You can’t entrust art forms and creative idioms to these platforms, but somehow they now possess life-or-death control over all of them.
> 
> If you’re a musician, that’s not a happy state of affairs.

> The [entire MIDIA report](https://www.midiaresearch.com/reports/all-eyes-no-ears-why-virality-is-not-building-fandom) is worth reading…\

#### Litti Chokha
[Why Is Bihar’s Litti-Chokha Still Invisible in India’s Food Story? — GOYA](https://www.goya.in/blog/why-is-bihars-litti-chokha-still-invisible-in-indias-food-story) #food #bihar 

A beautiful description of Litti Chokha, one of my favorite foods.

> If you’re in Bihar, Uttar Pradesh, West Bengal, or nearby states, you won’t have to search too hard to find litti chokha. Just look for establishments with lights bright enough to illuminate the street, little hole-in-the-wall shops, wobbly carts, or a pavement not being used for walking, and you will find it.
> 
> A plate of litti-chokha is simple. Litti is a ball of dough, kneaded with salt, ajwain, and some fat, filled with crumbly sattu (roasted Bengal gram flour). The sattu is combined with garlic, green chilies, coriander, salt, and a dash of pickle oil. Some will put enough garlic to repel a vampire. Chokha is a mash of roasted eggplants, boiled potatoes, coriander leaves, green chilies, onions, and most importantly, uncooked, raw, pungent, eye-watering mustard oil. Now every place might not offer you a green chutney, because litti chokha doesn't really need a third wheel.
> 
> Interesting to note is that besan and sattu are both made from Bengal gram, which is soaked and dried in the sun. For besan, you grind the dried Bengal gram. For sattu, you roast the Bengal gram in a wok filled with sand, and grind the legume along with the husk. This roasting process is what makes sattu a ready-to-eat meal.

#### How to figure out what to believe
[Thuggistry - by Rob Kurzban - Living Fossils](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/thuggistry)

> This post is about how to figure out what to believe.
> 
> Philosophers have a word for this issue, _epistemology_, the study of how to figure out what is true. My experience as a scientist made me, epistemologically, quite skeptical. I was in a meeting some time ago with people in Philadelphia city government and someone said that such and such must be the case because they saw the finding in a peer-reviewed journal. I regret how hard I laughed because it was otherwise a pretty somber meeting.
> 
> From an evolutionary perspective, figuring out what to believe is actually a tough problem. Humans need to learn from others, so they have to believe at least some of what others say, but they also don’t want to believe just _anything_.

#### 6 Economic Lessons from Books About Power, Propaganda, and Decline
[6 Economic Lessons from Books About Power, Propaganda, and Decline](https://kyla.substack.com/p/6-economic-lessons-from-books-about)

Kyla Scanlon deployes René Girard's mimetic theory to make sense of the current zeitgeist.

> For both cases, death became a partisan talking point. René Girard's mimetic theory helps explain what's happening here.
> 
> - Human desire is imitative - we want what others want (the business model of social media), which creates escalating conflicts as people compete for the same objects of desire.
> - This mimetic rivalry builds tension until it threatens to tear communities apart.
> - The ancient solution was scapegoating: the community would unanimously direct their violence toward a single (perhaps innocent) victim, achieving peace through shared blame.
> - It worked because it required unanimity.
> - Everyone had to agree, at least publicly, on who was responsible for their troubles and that collective accusation created social cohesion, even if it was built on a lie.
> 
> But online, that type of unanimity is structurally impossible. The same tragic event gets processed through completely different frameworks all at once. Murder becomes a way to validate an existing worldview and reinforce a sense of moral superiority. Digital scapegoating amplifies it across feeds. Tragedy becomes content.