### 2025-09-13
#### Should you have kids
[Should You Have Kids? - by Josh Zlatkus - Living Fossils](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/should-you-have-kids) #kids #parenting 

> Ezra Klein, whom I generally respect, was [once puzzled](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/birthrates-are-plummeting-worldwide-why/id1548604447?i=1000649683423) by why people aren’t having more children. In particular, he was surprised that incentive programs (like free daycare) have little effect.
> 
> I would argue that his surprise stemmed from applying the wrong rationality. From an academic perspective, incentives drive behavior, so lowering the cost of parenthood should increase births. But it doesn’t, because people generally don’t factor these kinds of incentives into their decision. They rely on a different rubric, a different rationality.
> 
> For most of human history, that rubric was simple: Do I want to bang this person? If so, and a child resulted, the next question was: Do I want to protect this offspring? At no point did anyone have to ask whether to have children. At no point did they have to list their values and imagine “living into” them. Reproduction just happened, without deliberation.
> 
> However, now that the question _is_ asked, it seems as if people ultimately rely on more ecologically rational approaches—_Is it expected of me? Is it part of the good life as my culture understands it? Does the person I love have a stronger opinion?_—rather than academically rational approaches, such as: _Are there more Pros or Cons? Do I like other children? How does it feel to say yes? How about no? Ultimately, will it line up with my values? Will I receive financial aid from my government?_ Honestly, these questions are neither here nor there.
> 
> Even with ecologically rational approaches, though, thinking about whether to have children is still like those dreams where we go to buy something but discover there’s nothing in our pockets to pay for it (sometimes we don’t even have pants). Similarly, on this major question of life, we reach inside ourselves and find nothing, no tool made for the purpose.

#### Vibe Code Cleanup Specialists
[The Software Engineers Paid to Fix Vibe Coded Messes](https://www.404media.co/the-software-engineers-paid-to-fix-vibe-coded-messes/)

> Linkedin has been joking about “vibe coding cleanup specialists,” but it’s actually a growing profession.