### 2025-03-23
#### Career Advice in 2025
[Career advice in 2025. \| Irrational Exuberance](https://lethain.com/career-advice-2025/) #career #software #jobs 

Very relatable for me atm.

> If you pull all those things together, you’re essentially in a market where [profit and pace are fixed](https://lethain.com/forty-year-career/), and you have to figure out how you personally want to optimize between people, prestige and learning. Whereas a few years ago, I think these variables were much more decoupled, that is not what I hear from folks today, even if their jobs were quite cozy a few years ago.
> 
> Going a bit further, I know folks who are good at their jobs, and have been struggling to find something meaningful for six-plus months. I know folks who are exceptionally strong candidates, who can find reasonably good jobs, but even they are finding that the sorts of jobs they want simply don’t exist right now. I know folks who are strong candidates but with some oddities in their profile, maybe too many short stints, who are now being filtered out because hiring managers need some way to filter through the higher volume of candidates.
> 
> I can’t give advice on what _you_ should do, but if you’re finding this job market difficult, it’s certainly not personal. My sense is that’s basically the experience that everyone is having when searching for new roles right now. If you are in a role today that’s frustrating you, my advice is to try harder than usual to find a way to make it a rewarding experience, even if it’s not perfect. I also wouldn’t personally try to sit this cycle out unless you’re comfortable with a small risk that reentry is quite difficult: I think it’s more likely that the ecosystem is meaningfully different in five years than that it’s largely unchanged.

#### Scribbling with Pencils
[Issue 113: The Reading Life of... Michael Rance](https://petya.substack.com/p/issue-113-the-reading-life-of-michael) #blackwing #pencils #scribbling #reading 

> There is nothing perhaps more beautiful to me in one's reading life than marginalia. I love going through a friend's copy of a book and attempting to decipher their scribbles. Same goes for reading the book notes from a person one is dating: _'why did they underline this passage? Were they thinking of me?_'. I am a prolific proponent of writing in one's books. Note-taking directly on the page transforms a white, almost-cold object into a well-worn and colorful extension of thought.
> 
> The only thing that I write my notes with are pencils. I am annoyingly specific about what pencils I must be working with: the _**[Palomino Blackwings](https://blackwing602.com/products/blackwing-602-set-of-12?_pos=2&_sid=2921d3d66&_ss=r)**_, ideally the black model, and they must be sharpened. The _blackwings_ are perfect. They create a crisp, dark line, and they float across the page. They are a modern reproduction of the pencils that John Steinbeck (among others) wrote with. I like knowing that I am holding a similar instrument as the one that Steinbeck held as he furiously wrote _The Grapes of Wrath_. I am romantic and foolish sometimes!
> 
> I have a fairly intricate note-taking process. In my books I underline passages that are of some interest to me, and in the margin nearest the spine I will jot down asterisks to note how essential the passage is for my brain.
> 
> Sometimes I will underline specific words, and write letters in the margin that correspond to what I want to do with the words.
> 
> - **'R'** means that i want to read the thing in question. '
>     
> - **'r'** means that I want to do further research.
>     
> - **'**_**def**_**'** means that I need to define the word, if I don't have it in my vocabulary.
>     
> - **'**_**mem.**_**'** means that I want to memorize the passage.
>     
> - **'ST**' means that I want to actively study the passage. I use this when I am smitten by something about the prose style, or the construction of the narrative, and want to learn from it to use in my own writing practice.
>     
> 
> Outside of the margins I will write brief notes, questions, reflections. Same goes for the top of the page. If the book is especially important or for a project that I am doing, I will go through after finishing the book and place multi-colored stickers so that they hang from the outside of the book. Below is an example from Halldór Laxness’ _Independent People_, which I read for a newsletter piece that I [wrote](https://michaelrance.substack.com/p/are-there-larger-things-than-independence) (shameless plug, sorry!).

#### Game of Life
[What Can We Learn about Engineering and Innovation from Half a Century of the Game of Life Cellular Automaton?—Stephen Wolfram Writings](https://writings.stephenwolfram.com/2025/03/what-can-we-learn-about-engineering-and-innovation-from-half-a-century-of-the-game-of-life-cellular-automaton/) #engineering #innovation #conway

I recently wrote a CSS grid based Game of Life animation, that served as a background for a webpage. Had a lot of fun writing it. When I showed the webpage to a bunch of my dev friends, everyone was impressed with the animation, but I was a bit surprised how few of them were able to recognize the original inspiration from Conway's Game of Life. Next time, I will send this article to them.

#### Toxic Preconditions
[The Imperfectionist: Toxic preconditions](https://ckarchive.com/b/wvu2hghkkz6xgb9r552rqtn0grxxxh8) #burkeman

From Oliver Burkeman's latest newsletter

> A more wide-reaching form of toxic precondition is what Anne-Laure Le Cunff, in her brilliant just-published book [Tiny Experiments](https://nesslabs.com/book), calls “the tyranny of purpose” – the oppressive idea that the activities with which we fill our days must be leading up to something, to some final and finished state of having arrived at our destination in life, if they’re to be worth doing in the first place. Her book is a practical guide to living experimentally and with curiosity in the deepest sense of those terms – ie., not just as a cleverer way of putting your five-year vision into action, but because living experimentally and with curiosity is an inherently fulfilling way to live. Imagine the projects you could launch, the hobbies you could explore, the ways you could conduct your social life or parenting, and much else besides, if you needed no reassurance that the new way of doing things was every going to become a permanent feature of your life! Wouldn’t you suddenly feel much, much freer to act?
> 
> Which brings us, I think, to the fundamental toxic precondition lurking behind every other toxic precondition: the strong desire we have for some kind of guarantee – before we embark on a new activity, or even just allow ourselves to relax into life – that it’ll all unfold safely and securely, that we’ll retain the feeling of being in control. That’s what you’re surrendering, in a small way, when you go ahead and write a few hundred words of your novel, with no certainty they’ll be any good. Or when you move forward with the day’s projects despite not having carried out your morning routine to the letter. It’s also what you’re surrendering when you decide to cut yourself a bit more slack in life – because who knows what chaos might unfold if you stopped yelling internally at yourself to work harder or do better, if you stopped watching yourself like a hawk for signs of backsliding? In other words: we don’t erect toxic preconditions simply because we’re irrational, self-defeating idiots. We do it because we want to feel secure, and to avoid the risk of experiencing emotions we’re unsure we’d be able to handle.

> You never had control; all you had was anxiety. And when you let go of that, even a little bit, what you’re left with is one of the most powerful reasons imaginable for taking any action that feels as though it might make life more meaningful or vibrant, which is that frankly, at the end of the day, _you might as well._

#### Musk Discovers Magic Money Printers
[Elon Musk Discovers the "Magic" of Modern Money](https://stephaniekelton.substack.com/p/elon-musk-discovers-the-magic-of) #mmt #money 

