### 2025-08-08
#### affinity
[affinity - bookbear express](https://www.avabear.xyz/p/affinity)

> The idea that affinity can free you is simple. But people have complicated relationships with knowing what they actually like. Yesterday at dinner J used a metaphor for having the wrong job that went, _Sometimes people think they should play basketball because they like dribbling_. Which I interpret as, It’s very easy to think something is right for you because parts of it are pretty awesome. But what about the other parts? And what’s the main part, the crux of it all? Do you like that? You can like dribbling and shooting and passing and not actually like basketball.

#### the power of immediacy
[The Imperfectionist: The power of immediacy](https://ckarchive.com/b/r8u8hoh3qpe9wu48nng83sden4n66h7hwx834) #burkeman 

> In collecting all those articles and bookmarks, I’d been engaging in what the Substacker Harjas Sandhu, in [an insightful post](https://hardlyworking1.substack.com/p/hoarding-type-scrolling), calls “hoarding-type scrolling”. The hallmark of this behaviour, he writes, is “saving good posts for later instead of reading them now… I feel like a squirrel looking for fat nuts to stash in my little tree hole. The strangest part of it all? I have more saved content than I could possibly consume in the entire next year… thousands of hours of thought-provoking pieces to read and videos that might actually change how I see the world.”
> 
> The most obvious problem here, of course, is that you far less frequently get around to actually reading or watching – and thus letting yourself be changed by – the ideas you encounter. But the other problem is that it generates a huge backlog to slog through – so that even if you _do_ get around to reading or watching, you’re no longer responding from the place of aliveness and excitement that first drew you in, but from a duller sense of obligation to clear the backlog, extract the important bits, and move on to something else.

> This makes sense, because I think the reason we engage in all this hoarding behaviour is that it’s a more comfortable alternative to the uncomfortable intensity of actually living. To take an action is to risk that it might fail, or that it might succeed; that it might lead to big changes, or no changes at all. And it means using up a chunk of your finite time, and maybe also money, instead of just continuing to add to the list of things you potentially _could_ do — which stretches off into the infinite future, where mortality doesn’t apply.

#### beauty as an average
[My scar makes beach outings an ordeal. How can I care less about it? \| Well actually \| The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/wellness/2025/aug/07/advice-keloid-scars-ask-ugly) #beauty #standard 

> Averageness is “the most important aspect” of one’s understanding of beauty, said Dr Neelam Vashi, an associate professor of dermatology at Boston University’s medical school, on the [Apple News in Conversation podcast](https://podcasts.apple.com/us/podcast/the-real-reason-so-many-people-are-getting-cosmetic-surgery/id1577591053?i=1000659676999). It refers to how closely any given face or body matches that of the average person within their population. “Our population could be me looking at 1,000 images,” Dr Vashi explained. “What my brain does is looks at all of them, and then it makes a prototype [of beauty] in my head.”
>
> Thanks to the prevalence of filters, photo-editing technology and AI-generated imagery, people’s prototypes now reference digitally altered inputs, said Vashi. This means scarred, middle-aged skin might not fit your brain’s idea of attractiveness, or even normality.
>
> The good news: brains are malleable! Vashi cited [a 2009 study](https://www.allure.com/story/doll-diversity-beauty-ideals-self-esteem) in which researchers squished and stretched the faces of storybook characters and found that, after viewing altered images, children’s sense of what was beautiful subtly shifted toward the distortions.
>
> So start with some amateur exposure therapy. Go to the beach! Go to the pool! Go to a communal spa or a nude spa (Korean spas, known as _jjimjilbangs,_ are my personal happy place). Notice different bodies, faces, skin types, textures – not to compare, judge or objectify, but to observe.

#### Doing versus Delegating
[Doing versus Delegating - by Matt Basta - Basta’s Notes](https://basta.substack.com/p/doing-versus-delegating)

> When we frame our successes and failures not in terms of the code but on the outcomes of the project, delegating gets more intuitive. If you’re evaluated on outcomes, you’re being measured on _literally anything_ that goes into that project, not just time spent writing code.
> 
> Maybe you wrote some specs. Maybe you met with people about requirements and constraints. Maybe you talked with stakeholders to address details that don’t make sense. Perhaps you updated the roadmap to avoid extra work caused by a parallel project. All of these things matter just as much as the time spent coding, if not more. If your coding output is the bottleneck for your projects being successful, it’ll be valued more highly than the other skills. But if you’re a Senior engineer working towards Staff+, it’s understood that your coding skills are essentially at a point of diminishing returns.

> You can instead spend your time doing things that help other people spend more time coding, and writing that code faster:
> 
> 1. Offering domain expertise to other engineers
> 2. Making sure folks aren’t blocked
>     1. effectively communicating project details and context
>     2. code reviews
>     3. answering questions
>     4. connecting people across the company to address mismatches
>     5. pointing out drawbacks
> 3. Avoid problems (and avoiding time sinks)
>     1. making sure everyone is working in the same direction
>     2. making sure the output of the project is well-understood by stakeholders
>     3. making sure the project sufficiently addresses the problems it intends to solve
> 4. Tracking other projects with similar requirements or shared work
>     1. avoiding duplicated effort
>     2. avoiding conflicts between the projects
> 5. Effectively spinning up other engineers on a project and distributing work (multiplying efficiency)
> 6. Ensuring prerequisites are met
> 7. …endless other items…
> 
You can be the fastest coder in the west, but if these things aren’t done well, the project is probably going to go poorly. And if they are done well, the project will be done faster with others than if you did it yourself.

> Programming practices are mostly tacit knowledge. Tacit knowledge isn't easy to share. An expert will relate some simple-sounding rule of thumb, but then grilling them on specific cases will quickly uncover a huge collection of exceptions and caveats that vary depending on the specific details of the situation. These are generated from many many past experiences and don't generalize well outside of the context of that body of experience.
> 
> Trying to apply the rule of thumb without knowing all those details tends to result in failure. Phrases like "don't repeat yourself", "you aren't going to need it", "separation of concerns", "test-driven development" etc were originally produced from some body of valid experience, but then wildly over-generalized and over-applied without any of the original nuance.
> 
> The way to convey tacit knowledge, if at all, is via the body of experiences that generated the rule. For this reason I find much more value in specific experience reports or in watching people actually working, as opposed to writing about general principles.