### 2025-08-16
#### Evolution and Irrationality
[Flat Earthers on a Cruise: How evolution wired us to act against our own best interests | The MIT Press Reader](https://thereader.mitpress.mit.edu/why-human-irrationality-is-evolutionary-not-accidental/) #evolution #rationality

> All of these behaviors illustrate our evolutionary inertia. We are descended from animals that had to make fast decisions — about food, threats, and reproduction. There was no time for deliberation; quick but flawed judgment meant survival. Thus, irrationality, or at least a limited and pragmatic rationality, has made it possible for us to survive (which does not implicitly mean that it is justified today). This compromise between speed and accuracy generates a cascade of imperfections and snap judgments.
> 
> As psychologist Gerd Gigerenzer argues, from our evolutionary past, we have inherited an adaptive, contextual form of reasoning that is neither logical nor probabilistic, but good enough to keep us alive. We’re wired to scan for threats, anticipate others’ behavior, and infer meaning, even when none exists. This explains why we tend to attribute cause-and-effect relationships between totally unrelated phenomena, such as stepping under a ladder and failing an exam, and draw broad conclusions from anecdotes. A great deal of the data from developmental psychology, anthropology, and neuroscience [confirms that](https://www.nejm.org/doi/full/10.1056/NEJM200409233511326), for adaptive reasons that no longer exist, our minds have evolved a strong tendency to distinguish between inert entities, such as physical objects, and entities of a psychological nature, like animate agents. We thus are dualists and animists by nature. As a result, we attribute purposes and intentions to things, even when none exist, and imagine hidden motives and conspiracies where there are none. For us, stories always have a purpose, which can be evident or hidden.
> 
> We are, in short, belief machines, and we manufacture a lot of those beliefs. And when belief comforts us or helps us make sense of a chaotic world, we cling to it, no matter how irrational. We’re even willing to endure ridicule, as in the case of flat-earthers who set out on a cruise to reach the ends of the earth. They never reached it, but afterward, [many found ways to explain why](https://www.denverpost.com/2025/01/17/flat-earth-final-experiment-antarctica-will-duffy/).


> Levi saw technical and narrative invention as forms of tinkering, building on existing materials and constraints, just like evolution itself. For Levi, humanity is capable of both sublime achievement and unimaginable horror. In his appendix to “If This Is a Man,” he writes that the extermination camps are nonhuman, even counter-human inventions. But there can be no return to Arcadia; we must forge ahead as our own blacksmiths. The only true antidote to falling back into “inhumanism,” according to Levi, is critical and self-critical rationalism. Not a perfect logic, but a skeptical and methodical approach, whose first lesson is simple: Distrust all the prophets that manipulate the imperfections of the human mind.

#### The Performative Man
[Social media is obsessed with ‘performative men’ – also known as men](http://archive.today/JjvFF)

> The contestants at the “Performative Male Contest,” dozens of young men, milled around the park conspicuously but nonchalantly, waiting to be noticed and judged by an audience of several hundred onlookers.
> 
> To encourage this attention, they donned T-shirts with feminist slogans, baggy jeans and pink Nikes. They [buried their noses](https://archive.ph/o/JjvFF/https://www.tiktok.com/t/ZP8kpwo4y/) in the first few pages of noticeably uncreased copies of “Women’s Bodies, Women’s Wisdom” by Christiane Northrup, “Period Power” by Maisie Hill and “Becoming” by Michelle Obama. In their requisite canvas totes, they toted disposable cameras, albums by pop chanteuse Clairo (on vinyl of course) and, if room remained, their ukuleles (employed to deploy unsolicited and [aggressively twee covers of Beyoncé songs](https://archive.ph/o/JjvFF/https://www.tiktok.com/t/ZP8ksJSqY/)). Almost uniformly, they sipped bright green iced matcha oat milk lattes from clear plastic cups.

> This freshly minted archetype is the amalgamation of a trove of tropes, precisely selected and arranged by men to convey an air of progressively enlightened, nontoxic masculinity. This can be signaled through fashion choices (a little shirt, somewhat large pants, a ludicrously capacious bag), ostensibly non-sartorial accessories (the matcha, the book of essays by bell hooks) and strategic public displays of existence (the table for one at a crowded cafe).

> If the dating coach and the gymfluencer count as relatively rare birds, the podcast bros are the pigeons. The rise of “The Joe Rogan Experience” has spawned an epidemic of young men with large microphones, sitting in cramped home studios and holding meandering, unedited conversations about dating (or not), lifting (or not) and how wokeness is eroding the very possibility of living authentically as a man (it’s not).

#### Self-termination
[‘Self-termination is most likely’: the history and future of societal collapse \| Environment \| The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/environment/2025/aug/02/self-termination-history-and-future-of-societal-collapse) #history #collapse 

> I’m pessimistic about the future,” he says. “But I’m optimistic about people.” Kemp’s new book covers the rise and collapse of more than 400 societies over 5,000 years and took seven years to write. The lessons he has drawn are often striking: people are fundamentally egalitarian but are led to collapses by enriched, status-obsessed elites, while past collapses often improved the lives of ordinary citizens.
> 
> Today’s global civilisation, however, is deeply interconnected and unequal and could lead to the worst societal collapse yet, he says. The threat is from leaders who are “walking versions of the dark triad” – narcissism, psychopathy and Machiavellianism – in a world menaced by the climate crisis, nuclear weapons, artificial intelligence and killer robots.


> Collapses in the past were at a regional level and often beneficial for most people, but collapse today would be global and disastrous for all. “Today, we don’t have regional empires so much as we have one single, interconnected global Goliath. All our societies act within one single global economic system – capitalism,” Kemp says.
> 
> He cites three reasons why the collapse of the global Goliath would be far worse than previous events. First is that collapses are accompanied by surges in violence as elites try to reassert their dominance. “In the past, those battles were waged with swords or muskets. Today we have nuclear weapons,” he says.
> 
> Second, people in the past were not heavily reliant on empires or states for services and, unlike today, could easily go back to farming or hunting and gathering. “Today, most of us are specialised, and we’re dependent upon global infrastructure. If that falls away, we too will fall,” he says.
> 
> “Last but not least is that, unfortunately, all the threats we face today are far worse than in the past,” he says. Past climatic changes that precipitated collapses, for example, usually involved a temperature change of 1C at a regional level. Today, we face 3C globally. There are also about 10,000 nuclear weapons, technologies such as artificial intelligence and killer robots and engineered pandemics, all sources of catastrophic global risk.


> If citizens’ juries and wealth caps seem wildly optimistic, Kemp says we have been long brainwashed by rulers justifying their dominance, from the self-declared god-pharaohs of Egypt and priests claiming to control the weather to autocrats claiming to defend people from foreign threats and tech titans selling us their techno-utopias. “It’s always been easier to imagine the end of the world than the end of Goliaths. That’s because these are stories that have been hammered into us over the space of 5,000 years,” he says.
> 
> “Today, people find it easier to imagine that we can build intelligence on silicon than we can do democracy at scale, or that we can escape arms races. It’s complete bullshit. Of course we can do democracy at scale. We’re a naturally social, altruistic, democratic species and we all have an anti-dominance intuition. This is what we’re built for.”
> 
> Kemp rejects the suggestion that he is simply presenting a politically leftwing take on history. “There is nothing inherently left wing about democracy,” he says. “Nor does the left have a monopoly on fighting corruption, holding power accountable and making sure companies pay for the social and environmental damages they cause. That’s just making our economy more honest.”
> 
> He also has a message for individuals: “Collapse isn’t just caused by structures, but also people. If you want to save the world then the first step is to stop destroying it. In other words: don’t be a dick. Don’t work for big tech, arms manufacturers or the fossil fuel industry. Don’t accept relationships based on domination and share power whenever you can.”

#### Raw and selvedge jeans
[We Recommend These $250 Raw Selvedge Denim Jeans. Here’s Why. \| Reviews by Wirecutter](https://www.nytimes.com/wirecutter/reviews/advice-selvedge-denim/) #jeans #raw #selvedge

