### 2025-02-20
#### How GenZ sees the world
[Gen Z and the End of Predictable Progress - by kyla scanlon](https://substack.com/inbox/post/157018533) #genz #economics #demography 

Great piece by Kyla Scanlon that is worth reading in full. All the links to other articles she has written related to this topic are worth following as well. This post does a great job of providing a broad persuasive sweep of how GenZ are seeing the world.

> **Key Takeaways:**
> 
> - Gen Z faces a double disruption: AI-driven technological change and institutional instability
> - Three distinct Gen Z cohorts have emerged, each with different relationships to digital reality
> - A version of the barbell strategy is splitting career paths between "safety seekers" and "digital gamblers"
> - Our fiscal reality is quite stark right now, and that is shaping how young people see opportunities

> But young people are facing a double disruption - (1) technological creative destruction in the form of AI combined with (some form of) political creative destruction in the form of the Trump administration. When I talk to young people from New York or Louisiana or Tennessee or California or DC or Indiana or Massachusetts about their futures, they're not just worried about finding jobs, they're worried about whether or not the whole concept of a "career" as we know it will exist in five years. So in this piece, I want to talk about:

#### Paradox of Abundance
[Paradox of Abundance: Automation Anxiety Returns](https://academic.oup.com/book/9606/chapter-abstract/156660852?redirectedFrom=fulltext)

> Despite sustained increases in material standards of living, fear of the adverse employment consequences of technological advancement has recurred repeatedly. This represents a paradox of abundance: technological change threatens social welfare not because it intensifies scarcity but because it augments abundance. For most citizens of market economies, the primary income-generating asset they possess is their scarce labor. If rapid technological advances were to effectively substitute cheap and abundant capital for (previously) expensive and willful labor, society would be made wealthier, not poorer, in aggregate, but those who own labor but do not own capital might find it increasingly challenging to make a living. This chapter considers why automation anxiety has suddenly become salient in popular and academic discourse. It offers informed conjectures on the potential implications of these developments for employment and earnings.

#### Using Willpower to Change Circumstance
[Vacation Insights - by Josh Zlatkus - Living Fossils](https://substack.com/inbox/post/157431743)

> The most important insight skulking around the discussion so far is that the environment, context, circumstance, or situation is _far more powerful_ in determining how humans feel, and therefore behave, than willpower, self-control, personality, or resolve.
> 
> The role of circumstance helps to explain our optimism on the way home from vacation. As we sit on the tarmac, waiting for a gate to open, our projection of the future benefits from the success of the past week—why _can’t_ we carry this good momentum forward? Our problems seem infinitely manageable. Of course, the strong current of environment also explains why we are pulled back into the same old dynamics. If our failures or feelings were unique or inherent to us—part of our personality or personal history—then presumably they would show up on vacation. When they don’t, they are likely part of our circumstance. Others would respond similarly.
> 
> So, unless vacation’s positive momentum results in _structural changes_ to a person’s life, it is likely to fade away. Trust me, I’ve seen this time and time again in my practice. People don’t feel better until they find the right relationship, the right job, the right friends, the right city, and so on. [Suffering well](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/the-art-of-suffering-well) is an important skill to have, since nobody ever has everything at once; but when it comes to a difficult job, for example, a client’s energy is typically better spent finding a new one than trying to feel differently about the current one.
> 
> Willpower should be used to change circumstances, not responses to circumstances. And it must be applied as far upstream as possible. By “upstream,” I mean close to the source of the problem. For example, let’s say you’re in the grocery store and craving ice-cream. You’re also trying to eat healthier these days. You have two options. The first is not to buy the ice-cream. The second is to buy the ice-cream and rely on your willpower later, once the ice-cream is already in your freezer. Which do you think has more chance of success?
> 
> As it turns out, there’s something more upstream still. You could eat before you go to the grocery store, reducing your craving. Borrowing language from the first section, we could say that this “diminishes the likelihood that the hunger system will activate and influence perception.”[6](https://substack.com/inbox/post/157431743#footnote-6-157431743)
> 
> I try to make this point to clients all the time. “Willpower isn’t that powerful compared to circumstances,” I say, “and so when you think about using willpower, use it to change your circumstances.” Some clients, after this little speech, delete Instagram right then and there.