### 2025-03-28
#### AI and the software industry
[How will AI affect the software industry? | Alex Hyett](https://www.alexhyett.com/newsletter/how-will-ai-affect-the-software-industry/)  #ai #coding #software #programming

> AI is definitely going to cause more people to create software in the same way that Instagram caused more people to take photos. However, not everyone taking photos is a photographer, and not everyone creating software is a software developer.
> 
> Anyone can take a photo with their phone, but a photographer understands things like lighting and composition (can you tell I'm not a photographer!) to capture a memory or tell a story that not everyone is capable of.
> 
> The same is true for software development. Yes, AI is capable of writing code, but unless you are capable of fully understanding the requirements and the code that it has written, it won't be as good as what a professional developer could do.

#### Doomerism
[The Imperfectionist: Three ideas for turbulent times](https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/38u24xvgwxtkh2rz946srh43grnnnh7/m2h7h5h3ge93kgum/aHR0cHM6Ly9ja2FyY2hpdmUuY29tL2IvcDl1ZWg5aDJkeDVna3NtNmdndzZrYXBuNW8zMzNocg==)

From Oliver Burkeman's latest

> But “if we can recognise that change and uncertainty are basic principles,” as the futurist and environmentalist Hazel Henderson put it, “we can greet the future… with the understanding that **we do not know enough to be pessimistic**.” You can take a crisis very seriously indeed without fooling yourself that you know the worst outcome is certain. In fact, I’d say that to assume the worst is to _fail_ to take it seriously. All of which is worth bearing in mind before you next let some alarmist commentator’s efforts at emotional self-management, masquerading as objective analysis, completely derail your day.

#### Things that go wrong with disk IO
[Things that go wrong with disk IO \| notes.eatonphil.com](https://notes.eatonphil.com/2025-03-27-things-that-go-wrong-with-disk-io.html) #disk #io

This is a great article. I encountered the different ways that disk IO can go wrong for the first time when I worked on Badger, a key value database in Go. At that time I remember