### 2025-09-06
#### How Anime Took Over America
[How Anime Took Over America: From Pokemon to Demon Slayer and Dragon Ball Z - The New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2025/09/03/magazine/anime-manga-pokemon-demon-slayer-dragon-ball-z.html) #anima #america 

> From this early stage on, Black Americans were overrepresented in anime fandom. Arthell Isom, whose D’ART Shtajio is Japan’s first Black-owned animation studio, shared his theory with me that Black Americans identified with anime protagonists who often come from the margins of society. Perhaps, he suggested, they were also so used to being absent from the media they consumed that they had an easier time watching and identifying with Asian protagonists than white audiences did.

> No aspect of pop culture has remained untouched: In the fashion world, the streetwear label Supreme marketed a line of clothing festooned with images from “Akira,” and in recent years a number of Olympians and professional athletes have modeled their victory poses on anime characters.

> Above all, though, anime may be saved by its sheer madness. There is nothing especially marketable, after all, about a film like “My Neighbor Totoro,” in which a pair of children whose mother may or may not be dying follow anthropomorphic dust mites into a hidden world where they befriend a cat who is also a bus. The psycho-spiritual trauma of the mecha-versus-monsters epic “Neon Genesis Evangelion” can scarcely be described, much less audience-tested for the sake of nervous financial backers. Anime is the realm of the underdog and the weirdo, whose fantastically bizarre imaginations have created a medium defined by its difficulty. And if there’s one thing Hollywood doesn’t seem up for right now, it’s a challenge.
