### 2025-05-18
[The good times in tech are over \| sean goedecke](https://www.seangoedecke.com/good-times-are-over/) #tech #programming #software #jobs 

> In the 2010s, interest rates were zero or close to zero[2](https://www.seangoedecke.com/good-times-are-over/?ref=labnotes.org#fn-2). Investors could thus borrow a _lot_ of money. Much of that money was spent on tech companies in the hope of outsized returns. Tech companies were thus incentivized to (a) hire like crazy, and (b) do a lot of low-risk high-reward things, even if that ends up wasting money. Tech companies definitely did _not_ have to be profitable. In fact, they didn’t even need to make money - they just had to acquire users, or at least hype, to drive up the valuation of the company itself. In that environment, throwing money at their software engineers (in the form of paid trips, in-house chefs, and huge comp packages) was a sensible business decision.
> 
> In 2023, this underlying economic situation reversed: interest rates went up to around 5%[3](https://www.seangoedecke.com/good-times-are-over/?ref=labnotes.org#fn-3). Tech company incentives completely flipped: now it’s suddenly important to be profitable, or at least to make lots of money. That means it’s not wise for most companies to hire like crazy, or to continue throwing near-unlimited amounts of money at their software engineers.

> The biggest thing to internalize is that **companies now are actually trying to focus**. In 2015, there was a lot of appetite to do everything at the same time: building out new product lines, transitioning from a product to a platform, making significant open-source contributions, working on a top-tier developer experience, and so on. In 2025, most of these initiatives have been abruptly defunded in order to put more resources into a handful of bets that the company executives actually care about.
> 
> During the 2010s, it was as if companies _were_ their software engineers, and were interested in the same things as their engineers were. A lot of engineers were fooled by this into identifying strongly with their employer. But this was a mirage: in part caused by companies’ desire to attract and retain talent, and in part by there being no real pressure on companies to say no to anything. Now the mirage has vanished. Companies are their executive leadership, and their executive leadership are interested in a much smaller set of things.

> If I had to choose, I’d definitely choose to return to the job market of the 2010s, so I can be paid more to work less and have more job security. I’m not an idiot. But the silver lining to actually having to ship is that you’re no longer living in a dream. If you’re realistic about how things work, the job of software engineering becomes much easier to understand:
> 
> 1. Providing value to the company gets you rewarded
> 2. Not providing value to the company gets you punished
> 3. “Value to the company” means furthering the explicit plans of your company’s executives
> 
> It’s not much of a mission statement! Certainly nothing on “making the world a better place”. But it has the comforting solidity of the truth. The good thing about the music finally stopping is that you don’t have to worry about when it’s going to stop.

#### Liquid Content
[The Dawn of Liquid Content - by Ryan Khurana](https://genarrative.substack.com/p/the-dawn-of-liquid-content)

> In our world, AI is obliterating the boundaries between forms altogether.
> 
> Welcome to the age of Liquid Content—where information flows seamlessly between mediums, transforming its shape while preserving its essence. What was once fixed—text, audio, video—now exists in a state of perpetual potential, ready to materialize in whatever form serves the moment. To understand where Liquid Content will take us, we need only to look at how it has already transformed how we comprehend information.
> 
> On TikTok, a video’s format – short, vertical, often overlaid with text – is key to its addictive appeal. A striking example is the prevalence of AI-enabled dynamic transcript overlays (auto-captions and text snippets that appear in sync with speech). By presenting spoken words as on-screen text, TikTok videos manage to grip viewers even with the sound off – something traditional digital media formats failed to do. The result? Higher engagement and retention. In fact, surveys have found that 80% of viewers are more likely to watch an entire video when captions are on, and 37% say captions actually encourage them to turn the sound on out of increased interest.

> If TikTok and Spotify show medium shifts in action, AI-powered multimodality represents something far more radical: **the complete liberation of content from form**. We're not just talking about converting text to speech—we're entering an era where content exists as pure information potential, ready to materialize in whatever medium best serves the moment.
> 
> This isn't just _flexible_ content; it's **Liquid Content**—a paradigm where information flows into the vessel most appropriate for context, user, and purpose.

#### Breathwork
[I was sceptical about breathwork so I did my own research \| Psyche Ideas](https://psyche.co/ideas/i-was-sceptical-about-breathwork-so-i-did-my-own-research) #health #wellness

> It all started when I heard about a landmark scientific [paper](https://www.pnas.org/doi/10.1073/pnas.1322174111) that involved the ‘Ice Man’ Wim Hof training a group of volunteers in a specific breathing technique, and comparing their outcomes with a control group. Earlier, all the volunteers had been injected with a bacterial endotoxin; the results of the breathwork experiment suggested that the Hof group had been able to use controlled breathing to influence their autonomic nervous system, and subsequently their immune response to the toxin.

breathwork techniques

> Breathwork is both ancient and contemporary. ‘Breath’ translates as spirit in Latin: _spiritus._ Derived from practices such as yogic _pranayama_ (_prana_ = life-giving force; _ayama_ = extension or expansion) and Tibetan _tummo_ (‘inner fire’) meditation, it encompasses diverse techniques that regulate breathing patterns to influence physical, mental and emotional states. Techniques range from slow, meditative-like breathing (such as coherent breathing, and _nadi shodhana_, which is alternate nostril breathing) to faster, high-ventilation styles (such as Hof’s hyperventilation with breath holds, and Stanislav Grof’s holotropic breathwork, which involves engaging in very deep breathing for up to three hours at a time).
> 
> Other notable techniques include _ujjayi_ breathing and _kapalabhati_. Ujjayi or ‘ocean breath’ is a soft, whispering breath that can enhance and complement both focus and steadiness, especially while practising movement/yoga. It involves breathing with a slight constriction in your throat, creating a sound like gentle ocean waves. Kapalabhati or ‘skull shining breath’ is a cleansing, high-ventilation practice that involves pumping the navel to produce forceful exhales, with passive inhales due to recoil of the lungs. It may improve mental clarity.

> Unlike many wellness trends that come and go, breathwork – similar to meditation and yoga – is grounded in millennia of human experience. However, breathwork’s claims often outpace rigorous scientific validation, so I completely understand the scepticism. Early in my journey, I too questioned whether controlled breathing could truly influence wellbeing. In fact, it’s part of what motivated me to begin my doctoral [research](https://sussex.figshare.com/articles/thesis/Does_breathwork_work_An_empirical_evaluation_of_the_hype/27633039), titled _Does Breathwork Work? An Empirical Evaluation of the_ _Hype_ (2008)_._