### 2025-09-18
#### OpenAI’s Models Are Getting Too Smart For Their Human Teachers
[OpenAI’s Models Are Getting Too Smart For Their Human Teachers — The Information](https://www.theinformation.com/articles/openais-models-getting-smart-human-teachers?rc=arnbfe)

Interesting newsletter from The Information

> In the fight to improve AI models, **Anthropic** and **OpenAI** have doubled down on two methods: letting models train on fake clones of apps—otherwise known as **reinforcement learning environments or gyms**—and getting experts in various fields to teach models new things, as I reported in [this Tuesday story](https://url3396.theinformation.com/ls/click?upn=u001.71kYkaWDpGOJSzbGrs4y1TNF0-2FB-2Bh5pDUdkL0JSEoBmbIlaCwUAb-2B2vhxG1AFBaNK03flILn7zJs8v1kech20r5eppkhW8xbfTqOmjaHF5vbsOcAjpxukzTKqD-2BGSPezScAMYUr5H6e3ZVMoYF6BEzXhzZCuLL38PeT9y68mo4yn8sld8sVRgl-2BnJDOVOfUC4HcH2DxAnaIaR2RFtbhWfgdIu3UFXzM0mZTscB7DLTI-3DhOyi_AuC1hQt1RN-2BQ8oJF7JTR1tika1meOrVYrdKu0OyV0p-2B1mOEfWNRn9J-2B6tRYBCt3jXKmm-2BjQyDRyeskWIckTKI-2Fzrw-2FW1biZoJwQQeqkG6FupAQ-2B-2Bj6zukxlEmbnwmjCLsh67pMKNnLAWpfnqdp-2FNggMRlzWnhO11-2BtCARD9uiE0cCjMEnjEXS2InYmcG4I-2FTP7G5wP8-2B8LUR5qmPkWjYAco6z5mswvI-2BqJz1PtPbGhNP6Qxm-2Bumgq6ovkrnoCF4ekXSn9K6I8fI9O5Q0I1S3vXzPCh-2F6Ka0AP1qdwkOTL8oikH8d4ixvyWxQwNRy-2B88I3lA0rpvaZn-2BRlkbE0smaIRyyGCf1pSqq1SW4oJLhAy-2FUfbLj6rZ3DihsG-2BAmZbXw).
> 
> One problem is emerging, though: It’s getting a lot harder for human experts to stump the models and expand their knowledge in certain fields.
> 
> For example, one expert helping teach OpenAI’s **o3** model last year told me that at the time, he could come up with three to four linguistics-related tasks per week that the model couldn’t do. Now that he’s working with **GPT-5**, which launched this summer, it’s been harder to come up with linguistic questions that the model can’t answer. He’s only been able to come up with one to two new tasks that the model can’t do per week.

and the kicker!

> “It feels like we're training models to replace ourselves,” he said.

#### AI and the "good enough" principle
[Artists are losing work, wages, and hope as bosses and clients embrace AI](https://www.bloodinthemachine.com/p/artists-are-losing-work-wages-and) #ai #work 

> This is why you’ll hear artists talk about the “good enough” principle. Creative workers aren’t typically worried that AI systems are so good they’ll be rendered obsolete as artists, or that AI-generated work will be better than theirs, but that clients, managers, and even consumers will deem AI art “good enough” as the companies that produce it push down their wages and corrode their ability to earn a living. (There is a clear parallel [to the Luddites here](https://www.bloodinthemachine.com/p/one-year-of-blood-in-the-machine), who were skilled technicians and clothmakers who weren’t worried about technology surpassing them, but the way factory owners used it to make cheaper, lower-quality goods that drove down prices.)

#### Benefits of Handwriting
[‘I’m a modern-day luddite’: Meet the students who don’t use laptops \| Dazed](https://www.dazeddigital.com/life-culture/article/68647/1/im-a-modern-luddite-the-students-who-dont-use-laptops-handwriting-university) 

> It might sound like another hopeless attempt to revive “cooked” student attention spans, but there’s actual science behind doing an academic digital detox. A recent study by the Norwegian University of Science and Technology found that [handwriting generates far more brain stimulation than typing](https://www.frontiersin.org/news/2024/01/26/writing-by-hand-increase-brain-connectivity-typing), especially in the creative centres of the brain. The research monitored electrical activity in students’ brains when playing Pictionary, first describing images by typing, and then handwriting, with the findings showing “higher cognitive thought processes” from those using their hands. 
> 
> Audrey van der Meer, the paper’s co-author, claims the brain’s learning and memory centres are “much more involved” when handwriting. “When you’re typing, it’s very easy to type everything the lecturer says,” she says. “That information goes into our ears and out through our fingertips without being processed.” Her research shows students are forced to actually reason with what they handwrite – often through creative techniques like diagrams, which generate long-term memory patterns. This also translates to students enjoying their learning more. Van der Meer explains how, having not handwritten for years, many of the study’s participants wanted to explore their artistic side afterwards, claiming they “really treasured” the ability to create something by hand.