### 2025-02-09
#### The Psychology of Severance
[The Psychology of Severance \| Psychology Today](https://www.psychologytoday.com/intl/blog/unlock-your-true-motivation/202502/the-psychology-of-severance) #severance #tv #psychology 

> This disconnection is particularly evident in Mark S., the protagonist, whose "outie" has chosen to undergo the severance procedure to escape the [grief](https://www.psychologytoday.com/intl/basics/grief "Psychology Today looks at grief") of losing his wife. Yet his "innie" is trapped in a cycle of meaningless labor, unable to understand why he exists only within Lumon’s walls. His "innie" never sleeps, never rests, and the minute he leaves work, his next conscious experience is that of arriving at the office again for a new 8-hour work cycle. This mirrors what we see in some trauma survivors, who may [unconsciously or consciously repress or dissociate from painful memories](https://pmc.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/articles/PMC2080858/) as a [defense mechanism](https://www.psychologytoday.com/intl/basics/defense-mechanisms "Psychology Today looks at defense mechanism"). The severance procedure is, in effect, an extreme version of psychological [compartmentalization](https://www.psychologytoday.com/intl/basics/compartmentalization "Psychology Today looks at compartmentalization")—a way to avoid emotional pain by physically splitting off access to distressing memories.

#### Tokyo Drift
[Tokyo drift: what happens when a city stops being the future?  | Japan | The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/world/2025/jan/14/tokyo-drift-what-happens-when-a-city-stops-being-the-future)

> Still, mass tourism is as demoralising and demeaning here as anywhere. Tourists disrupt the rhythm of the city, agents of minor turmoil set loose in familiar spaces. There may be no way to describe these transgressions without sounding like a crank – I know it is not maliciousness on their part – but I have lived in Japan long enough that the surprise of encountering a broad, looming American, with their transparent expressions and flashy Lycra pants, stuns me out of the daze into which the city has lulled me. I am rankled by offences invisible to outsiders. While part of me sympathises with the family of sightseers blundering their way on to a crowded Yamanote Line train with their suitcases, or the young women filming TikToks in the aisles of a Ministop, my Tokyo training means I know infringement of its unwritten rules when I see it. This is a city that expects people to suffer in peculiar ways. You would need to live here to know that using a bicycle bell is anathema when you can simply squeeze the brakes by way of warning. There is no way to explain that the cement curbs around the overgrown green spaces carved out of the pavement at many intersections are not for sitting. I couldn’t say for sure why the rumble of the plastic wheels of rolling suitcases is more frightening than jackhammers.

> The guest worker in Japan, though necessary to keep operations running, is stretched thin between demand and bureaucracy, especially considering the quasi-legal subterfuge required to ship them in. While the recently assassinated former prime minister Shinzo Abe expanded the quota for moderately skilled immigrants in a series of reforms translated as “comprehensive measures for acceptance and coexistence of foreign nationals”, many still arrive on student visas. Brokers and language schools arrange minimal coursework and permission to work a 28-hour week on the side, though much longer shifts are typical. Legal measures to end death from overwork could be more difficult to enforce among student workers, who are preyed on by language schools and staffing agencies. The truly unlucky souls wind up as part of the technical intern training programme, a scheme to bring in unskilled labour under the guise of vocational training that domestic and foreign investigations have found is rife with human trafficking, fraud and vicious abuse that culminates in death, disfigurement and psychological trauma. When guest workers abscond from the legal programmes – in 2023 alone, more than 9,000 interns disappeared from the books – they become even more vulnerable, surviving on under-the-table jobs.

#### Writing Good AI Prompts for Code Generation
[Prompt patterns for LLMs that help you design better software \| Chuniversiteit](https://chuniversiteit.nl/papers/prompt-patterns-for-software-design)

> Developers typically use LLMs via prompts, natural language instructions that can be used to generate code(side note:This means that prompting can technically be seen as a form of programming.) and other types of artefacts. Prompt patterns are reusable prompt designs that codify best practices, and can be used to consistently achieve good results. This week’s paper introduces 13 such prompt patterns.
> 
> 