### 2025-10-05
#### The Buchstaben Museum
[The Buchstabenmuseum Berlin is closing \| Hacker News](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=45472678) #typography #museum

I had a chance to visit this museum just days before it closed down. Here is the instagram post with some pics: [Buchstaben Museum Pics | Instagram](https://www.instagram.com/p/DPYRTczCKQm/?img_index=1)

#### Hamlet is a GenZ story
[Hamlet Is the Gen Z Story We Need Right Now - by Ted Gioia](https://www.honest-broker.com/p/hamlet-is-the-gen-z-story-we-need) #genz #shakespeare

> It’s a familiar story these days. You might even be living inside it. Or, if not, you know somebody who is.
> 
> A young man returns from college, but he doesn’t have a job. So he moves back home. But here his life is aimless, and he falls into a deep depression.
> 
> Even though he is back home, it doesn’t feel that way. He’s disconnected from friends, and his loneliness grows more intense. His relationship with his girlfriend falls apart. He knows he needs to get his act together—but how?
> 
> It’s not all his fault. His family is a mess, and he lives in a broken household. His mother is a head case. His absent father is too demanding.
> 
> And the whole social and political situation is fractured. Our sad young man feels like one more victim of the pervasive dysfunction.
> 
> It’s the classic Gen Z dilemma. Almost half of them move back home after college nowadays. The odds are stacked against them at every turn.
> 
> But the story I’ve just told isn’t about Gen Z. It’s Shakespeare’s _Hamlet_—and it was written more than 400 years ago.


> If you were an existentialist or absurdist or beatnik, you recognized Hamlet as one of your own. He was lost in a meaningless world—but so were the other survivors of World War and economic collapse and the Holocaust. So were all the other sad young men, caught in a losing war against conformists.
> 
> And now today we recognize a completely different Hamlet:
> 
> - He’s the college graduate who can’t pay off all those student loans.
> - He’s the over-educated and under-employed worker who can’t get a job because of AI.
> - He’s the incel who can’t forge a relationship.
> - He’s the unhappy child of a broken home, struggling with depression.
> - He’s the scroll-and-swipe phone addict who retreats from the world, but at a devastating psychological cost.
> - He’s the person posting cries for help on social media—but nobody listens.
> 
> Go read Hamlet’s soliloquy again—that anguished “To be or not be….” filled with what we call (nowadays) suicidal ideation—and it fits all these gloomily familiar personality types.
> 
> Maybe that’s why pop culture is rediscovering Hamlet right now. Taylor Swift’s new album even leads off with a Hamlet track—[“The Fate of Ophelia.”](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ko70cExuzZM) She must have encountered these same personality profiles, and fears the consequences.

#### Robohiking
[I am Robohiker! — testing the exoskeleton that promises to take hikers further, faster](https://on.ft.com/4nEHY54) #augmented #hiking

> I’m in north Wales to test the Hypershell — billed as the world’s first outdoor exoskeleton and promising to take hikers further, faster and with less effort. It has been developed by a Shanghai start-up that launched in 2021, aiming to propel technologies used in manufacturing and medical rehabilitation into the leisure market. Sales of the first model began in January this year, but I’m using an updated version, the flagship X Ultra, unveiled in early September.

> In a hotel in Caernarfon where coach-tour pensioners bimble about the foyer, a Hypershell staffer clips me into what appears to be a climbing harness from a Mission Impossible movie. There’s a padded titanium alloy waistband with a slimline lithium battery, electric motors at each hip, and carbon-fibre calipers which curve to straps buckled just above the knees. It’s discreet(ish), sleek in matt black, and, at 1.8kg, relatively light.
>
> The idea is similar to what e-bikes do for cyclists — offering assistance rather than taking over completely. The Hypershell senses which leg you’re beginning to move and engages the corresponding motor. And like e-biking it has different power settings — Eco and Hyper — plus a Fitness mode that actually increases resistance, making it harder to walk, for those in training. Control is via buttons on the motors (a confusing series of short and long presses) or, more intuitively, via an app or an Apple Watch.

#### The ai Boom
[The ai Boom - Marginal REVOLUTION](https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2025/10/the-ai-boom.html) #ai #domains

> The tiny country of Anguilla (pop 15,000) has an official country top-level domain code for the internet of .ai. Domain name registrations have surged from 48,000 in 2018 to 870,000 in the year to date and that source of revenue alone now accounts for nearly 50% of state revenues.