### 2025-01-20
#### podscript rewrite
I rewrote the podscript tool I created last year: [Complete rewrite to improve ergonomics of the CLI interface. · deepakjois/podscript@dd8a229 · GitHub](https://github.com/deepakjois/podscript/commit/dd8a22952d1e010750aa0a82ee306f6bf69000a2)

I feel much better about the quality of the code and ergonomics of the CLI interface now. I am hoping to go further now and build a web-based add-on to the basic CLI that can be used from a browser and is more user-friendly.

One of the things I am especially proud of is the abstraction that I came up with on top of the LLM APIs (OpenAI, Claude and Groq) that allows me to send requests to them via a unified interface depending on which model the user wants to use: [podscript/llms.go at 104c6aafe06a5283215ab1bc8fd884a1f0959404 · deepakjois/podscript · GitHub](https://github.com/deepakjois/podscript/blob/104c6aafe06a5283215ab1bc8fd884a1f0959404/llms.go)

#### GPU Mode
[GPU MODE · GitHub](https://github.com/gpu-mode) #gpu #discord

*Your favorite GPU reading group*: https://discord.gg/gpumode

#### James Collier - Founder of Huel
[‘I get hate from both sides – vegans and carnivores’: James Collier on UPFs, emotional eating and why he created Huel \| Health \| The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/society/2025/jan/14/james-collier-co-founder-of-huel-meal-replacement-interview) #food #nutrition 

I am quite a fan of Huel and I used to consume it a lot when in the US. It helped me a lot on days when I was too lazy to cook, or wanted to lock in and focus on something else instead of spending time on food prep.

I had never heard of James Collier before reading this article, but the mention of Huel piqued my interest. I somehow pictured some techbro like figure who was formerly a fan of soylent to be the founder, but Collier's opinions were refreshingly different.

> His research led him to reconsider the food system as a whole, and eventually resulted in Well Fed. The book outlines his dietary philosophy, which he calls contemplative nutrition. It has five pillars: physical health, mental wellbeing, sustainability, ethics and togetherness.
> 
> Huel – “human fuel” – is instant food. How can its co-founder advocate contemplative eating? Surely that is contradictory to the convenience that Huel promotes to its customers (who are known as Hueligans)? “People can have a 100% Huel diet, but I would never encourage that – in fact, I would discourage it. But it can be one meal a day, or a couple of meals a week, or just have it in your cupboard for whenever times are hard,” he says. “People are grabbing food on the go, making unhealthy food choices. Huel is the best plan B.”

…

> When I first heard about Huel, I assumed it was a kind of trendy SlimFast. Is it a diet product? “It’s neither for weight gain nor weight loss,” says Collier. “Huel has been designed as a 2,000 calorie a day intake. It’s also been designed to promote satiety.” I tell him about a friend who credits Huel for getting rid of his beer belly. “Huel can’t take the credit for that, other than it’s made his life easier. There’s no magic solution in Huel. Anyone who changes their diet for the better is going to improve.”
> 
> In the book, Collier rails against the term “ultra-processed food”, preferring the phrase “junk food”. It is not difficult to see why: Huel falls into the former category but not the latter. Its products variously contain flavourings, stabilisers, sweeteners, emulsifiers and thickeners. “The term ultra-processed food should have stayed in academia. It has confused the public,” he says. “We need ultra-processing to combat the many environmental and nutritional risks we face. How are we going to get more fibre into people? Let’s use the _right_ sort of ultra-processing.” He points to Weetabix, baked beans and high-fibre bread as the “right” sort – as well as Huel, of course.

