### 2025-08-01
#### High Agency and Owning the Outcome
[Impact, agency, and taste \| benkuhn.net](https://www.benkuhn.net/impact/)

> I think of finding high-leverage work as having two interrelated components:
> 
> - **Agency:** i.e. some combination of the initiative/proactiveness to try to make things happen, and [relentlessness and resourcefulness](https://paulgraham.com/relres.html) to make sure you’ll succeed.
> - **Taste:** you need a good intuition for what things will and won’t work well to try. Taste is important both “in the large” (picking important problems) and “in the small” (picking approaches to solving those problems that will work well); I usually see people first become great at the latter, then the former.

> A common trait of high-agency people is that they take accountability for _achieving a goal_, not just doing some work.
> 
> There’s a huge difference between the following two operating modes:
> 
> 1. My goal is to ship this project by the end of the month, so I’m going to get people started working on it ASAP.
> 2. My goal is to ship this project by the end of the month, so I’m going to list out everything that needs to get done by then, draw up a schedule working backwards from the ship date, make sure the critical path is short enough, make sure we have enough staffing to do anything, figure out what we’ll cut if the schedule slips, be honest about how much slop we need, track progress against the schedule and surface any slippage as soon as I see it, pull in people from elsewhere if I need them…

Found this on another blog which has some good commentary on the original essay

> Striving for “inevitability”, as Kuhn frames it, isn’t about achieving perfection or eliminating all risk. That’s clearly impossible in most nontrivial areas of human endeavor. Instead, I think the real value lies in cultivating the mindset itself.
> 
> Adopting this agentic mindset takes conscious effort, especially initially. It means spending more time up-front planning, anticipating, and communicating, which can sometimes feel less immediately productive than jumping into writing code, or whatever the immediate “work” may be. However, investing time in up-front strategic thinking consistently pays off later. Having a strategy results in less frantic firefighting, fewer deadline slips, and a generally calmer, more predictable process for delivering impact.
> 
> The benefits of cultivating personal agency are beyond “merely” delivering reliable outcomes to achieve some abstract team/company/personal OKR. There’s a certain confidence and personal satisfaction that comes from knowing you’ve done the work to truly understand the problem, anticipate hurdles, and steer yourself toward success, rather than hoping things work out or leaning on someone else to keep the project unblocked. Agency also generalizes well across different domains of life. Developing agency in a professional context usually results in a higher ability[1](https://benjamincongdon.me/feed.xml#fn:1) to exercise agency in other contexts (e.g. personal, social, relational). Professional contexts are a good environment for developing agency too: in healthy workplaces, there is a clear feedback loop and ample opportunity to exercise agency.

#### Newsletters and RSS
[Curate your own newspaper with RSS](https://www.citationneeded.news/curate-with-rss/) #rss 

RSS solved the distribution problem a long time ago. It is really sad that it's been sidelined now, and we have to depend on email to bypass the enshittification of distribution platforms. But at least these outlets are realising the issue with letting 

> These intermediary platforms between news organizations and readers are undergoing a type of predictable decay Cory Doctorow calls “enshittification”: rip off others’ work while expecting high-quality journalism to magically continue to appear, even as journalists are starved of audience and revenue.
> 
> The newsletter strategy aims to bypass these rapidly enshittifying intermediaries and instead establish more direct relationships with subscribers. “I don’t intend to ever rely on someone else’s distribution ever again,” wrote __Verge__ editor-in-chief Nilay Patel on Bluesky.[3](https://www.citationneeded.news/curate-with-rss/#reference-3) Although email has undergone some enshittification of its own,[b](https://www.citationneeded.news/curate-with-rss/#footnote-2) its fundamental nature as a [protocol rather than a platform](https://knightcolumbia.org/content/protocols-not-platforms-a-technological-approach-to-free-speech) has provided one essential prophylactic to enshittification: the escape hatch. If your email provider suddenly inserted ads two sentences into every email, you could easily switch providers[c](https://www.citationneeded.news/curate-with-rss/#footnote-3) and still receive emails from everyone you previously emailed. As a result, email has become a go-to refuge for news outlets fleeing their abusive relationships with deeply enshittified platforms they grew reliant upon.
> 
> But the surge in newsletters has been overwhelming. Whether it’s writers like me who’ve never worked in a traditional newsroom, journalists who’ve left or been laid off from traditional jobs, or established newsrooms entering the newsletter business, there’s a newsletter around every corner. Instead of subscribing to a single newspaper for columns and articles by a dozen journalists, now you have a dozen separate newsletter subscriptions, with articles appearing haphazardly in your email inbox amid bills, business communications, marketing spam, order confirmations, and two-factor authentication codes.