### 2025-08-21
#### Stop talking about AI
[Stop talking about AI: Financial Times](https://on.ft.com/4lANVy7) #ai #hype

> So, be doubtful when someone likens AI to the industrial revolution in importance. It will do well to match even the telephone and the incandescent lightbulb. (Incomes really surged as 1900 approached.) Perhaps the test of AI isn’t economic, though. Perhaps the test is quality of life. Well, before the phonograph, your favourite piece of music was something you only ever heard a few times, when an orchestra passed through town and fancied playing it. Before air travel, crossing an ocean was a Homeric saga. Now it is easy. AI will be as life-enhancing as these inventions, will it?
> 
> I so want to side with the AI sceptics. But look at their (my) own intellectual howlers. The two paragraphs above are too “inductive”: too reliant on the past as a guide to the future. There is also no technical detail because, unlike most of those who talk up AI, I don’t work in or around the field. And there are even worse AI-sceptic arguments. At least I didn’t lapse into anecdote, of the “ChatGPT told me to take heroin as a cold cure” variety. 
> 
> As for the sensible line on AI, “wait and see”, that could be said about anything. It doesn’t tell investors what to do, or citizens how to prepare for the future.
> 
> In the end, there is just nothing very interesting to say about AI. There is lots of superb reporting. The major companies, the national strategies, the tech itself: keep abreast of it all. But when it comes to rumination and prognostication — the world of columnists and panel events — has there ever been a discourse so weak relative to its overall scale?


> I have found there to be just one useful feature of the AI discourse. It reveals a person’s existing temperament. The people I know who think AI will be seismic and disastrous are the most highly strung anyway. The ones who think it will be seismic and life-improving are the most chipper and prone to believing in things. (Tony Blair.) Those who doubt it will be seismic at all are people like me, who are even-keeled to the point of complacency. The AI hubbub goes on and rancorously on because it is, in the end, about us.

#### Populism and the median voter
[A median voter theory of right-wing populism - Marginal REVOLUTION](https://marginalrevolution.com/marginalrevolution/2025/08/a-median-voter-theory-of-right-wing-populism.html) #democracy #voter #populism

Quote of a quote:

> Populists are often defined as those who claim that they fill “political representation gaps” -differences between the policymaking by established parties and the “popular will.” Research has largely neglected to what extent this claim is correct. I study descriptively whether representation gaps exist and their relationship with populism. To this end, I analyze the responses of citizens and parliamentarians from 27 European countries to identical survey policy questions, which I compile and verify to be indicative of voting in referendums. I find that policymaking represents the economic attitudes of citizens well. However, I document that the average parliamentarian is about 1SD more culturally liberal than the national mean voter. This cultural representation gap is systematic in four ways: i) it arises on nearly all cultural issues, ii) in nearly all countries, iii) nearly all established parties are more culturally liberal than the national mean voter, and iv) all major demographic groups tend to be more conservative than their parliamentarians. Moreover, I find that demographic differences between voters and parliamentarians or lack of political knowledge cannot fully account for representation gaps. Finally, I show that right-wing populists fill the cultural representation gap.