### 2025-06-09
#### Taxes of the Built Environment
[Taxes of the Built Environment - by Josh Zlatkus](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/taxes-of-the-built-environment) #diaper #culture #technology #skill

An interesting aside in an otherwise unrelated piece about…erm…potty training.

> As a brief aside, I think part of the reason we are so impressed with the abilities of ancient peoples is that we are surrounded in the modern world by so much technology, which obviates doing anything all that impressive. Don’t get me wrong: if our ancestors could see me typing away on my computer, their jaws would hit the floor. They’d be much more impressed by the computer itself, of course, than my ability to poke its keys, but I also think they’d reserve some of their astonishment for how quickly I hit the keys (90 words a minute, baby).
> 
> By and large, though, people with little technology are asked to fill the gap with skill. People with plenty of technology, not so much.

and another one about concrete being one reason to necessiate diapers 

> Recalling Heying and Weinstein’s notion from _[A Hunter-Gatherer’s Guide to the 21st Century](https://www.amazon.com/Hunter-Gatherers-Guide-21st-Century-Challenges/dp/1800750943/ref=asc_df_1800750943?mcid=710147ad7ce63e8c8842412997efec69&hvocijid=2151750484161382549-1800750943-&hvexpln=73&tag=hyprod-20&linkCode=df0&hvadid=721245378154&hvpos=&hvnetw=g&hvrand=2151750484161382549&hvpone=&hvptwo=&hvqmt=&hvdev=c&hvdvcmdl=&hvlocint=&hvlocphy=9007270&hvtargid=pla-2281435177618&psc=1)_ that the benefits of new technologies are obvious but the hazards are not, I would argue that one of the overlooked hazards of concrete has been to render the modern environment inimical to quick and mindless elimination.[6](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/taxes-of-the-built-environment#footnote-6-164475141) The benefits of concrete are much more apparent—providing a consistent, level surface for people and vehicles to move on. Before cities were doused with cement and asphalt, floods were less predictable, roads were less permanent, shoes tracked more muck inside, and so on. In fact, because city surfaces were once more forgiving toward pee and poop, people and their animals likely peed and pooped on them more often, which obviously wasn’t ideal.

> So, why do diapers exist? In a word, concrete. In three words, the built environment. Diapers aren’t an intrinsically easier way of doing things; they are an easier way _given the built environment_. The built environment includes concrete, clothes, vast indoor spaces, hygiene norms, and so on. Really, anything that humans have “made,” as opposed to what evolution, geology, and so forth have provided.
> 
> Granted, the need for diapers is the sort of small to medium effect that most people don’t notice or care about. Ditto for the necessity of wearing shoes, maintaining a lawn, and showering daily. However, I hope through my writing to uncover more taxes of the built environment—and make people as incensed about them as they are their income tax.[11](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/taxes-of-the-built-environment#footnote-11-164475141)
> 
> In the end, what is the broad impact of the built environment? Over and over the organism goes to act, to impulsively behave, and has its wrist slapped. _You can’t walk there. You can’t touch that. You can’t sleep now._ You can’t just _do_ anything.
> 
> The built environment is increasingly like a diaper, smothering our natural responses often before we even have a chance to acknowledge them.

#### The rich, the ultra-rich and America’s shifting political landscape
[The rich, the ultra-rich and America’s shifting political landscape](https://on.ft.com/3HxyuZ3) #wealth #inequality #class

> “Class,” Williams writes, “shapes everything from how you define a good cup of coffee to what you see as the purpose of life.”


> Indeed. The book is filled with wonderful details about the things elites simply don’t understand about working people, like the fact that hunting might well be about keeping the fridge full rather than toxic masculinity, or that patriotism is attached to the fact that the military is one of the few ways up the socio-economic ladder for working-class Americans. 
> 
> While liberal elites tend to congratulate themselves on their “enlightened” political views and hyper-individualism, working people often see them as selfish, entitled and overprotective of their children.


  > Class certainly shapes politics in America, something that the Democratic party has, in recent years, ignored. Williams, like me, believes that progressives have focused far too much on race as opposed to class, leading to a fatal loss of “middle-status” voters to Donald Trump. While some of Trump’s base is racist, or at least xenophobic, there is, according to research cited by Williams, a good 19 per cent that are simply anti-elite. Democrats, she believes, should be “laser-focused” on recapturing this group by better understanding them. 
  > 
  > Anti-elites hold “moderate views on immigration, gay marriage and the environment” but are typically non-college grads. They are mostly but not solely white and see their future economic prospects as worse than their past. They sit outside the country’s white-collar meritocracy and are more interested in community and traditional institutions (church, unions, the military) than individualism and achievement. 
  > 
  > Many elites who wouldn’t dream of putting down an immigrant or an LGBT+ person are happy to speak about these people in punitive ways (which says something about the psychology of entitlement). But their condescension has come at a great electoral cost.


> The big takeaway is that the super-rich are as anxious as anyone else, if not more so. Osnos builds on his infamous 2017 essay “Survival of the Richest”, in which he examined the luxury end of the world of bunkers being built in places like New Zealand by wealthy dotcom survivalists. “How did a preoccupation with the apocalypse come to flourish in Silicon Valley, a place known, to the point of cliché, for unstinting confidence in its ability to change the world for the better?” he asks. One reason is that technology “rewards the ability to imagine wildly different futures”, be they utopian or dystopian.


> But my favourite chapter is “The Floating World”, in which Osnos sets sail aboard a half-billion-dollar superyacht docked in Monte Carlo harbour.
> 
 “Inside my cabin, I quickly came to understand that I would never be fully satisfied anywhere else again,” he writes.

> As behavioural economics tells us, happiness is relative, even for the 0.1 per cent.

#### Banality of the algorithm
[banality of the algorithm - by Adam Aleksic](https://etymology.substack.com/p/banality-of-the-algorithm) #hannah #arendt #banality #bureaucracy

> Humans are also very susceptible to stigmergy. When I’m making my way down a crowded sidewalk, I’m always struck by how people naturally sort themselves into fluid columns, following others going in the same direction. It’s easier, of course, than trying to fight someone headed the opposite way—but then we also make it easier for the person behind us to move forward.
> 
> Beyond motion, this affects almost all of our social behaviors, especially in how we spread memes and language. It simply takes less mental effort and social risk to follow what others do, so we perpetuate trends—often reaping social benefits that reinforce our behavior. It feels good to place a pen by an author’s grave, so we do that, and then others follow in our example.
> 
> This particular trend is an especially apt way to honor Hannah Arendt, whose most famous work focused on the stigmergy of bureaucracy. To her, much of the Holocaust was perpetrated not out of sociopathic malice, but out of a _banality of evil_—an institutional complacency, resulting from political structures, that made it easier to perpetuate terrible actions. Even many top Nazi officials, at the end of the day, acted not out of monstrous intent, but out of mechanical complicity—ants following pheromones pointing to professional promotion or social prestige.
> 
> The Holocaust is an extreme, tragic example, but banality is responsible for so many of our collective actions, because institutions are _always_ the path of least resistance. It’s simply easier to mold ourselves to social structures, in the same way that it’s easier to go with the flow of the crowd instead of against it.


> Upon [interviewing the creators](https://etymology.substack.com/p/i-interviewed-the-racist-instagram) behind viral racist videos, for example, I was surprised to discover that none of them seemed to be generating those videos out of _actual racist intent_. Yes, the racism was there, but their primary motivations were more banal factors like “views,” “virality,” and “followers.” Many were also taking cues from other edgy content creators, who were all taking cues from Meta’s recent decision to significantly loosen AI guardrails. In short, these Reels got millions of views because some Instagram executive decided that [slop is better for their profit margins](https://etymology.substack.com/p/slop-capitalism-and-dead-internet), and that eventually trickled downstream into our feeds.
> 
> The more I study cultural trends online, the more I see this cycle replicate, even for the most insignificant memes. As soon as a new idea becomes popular, [creators hop onto the trend](https://etymology.substack.com/p/how-hopelesscore-became-even-more), indirectly coordinating to kill the meme in pursuit of clicks. Since words are memes, the same is true of language, which is why I think our “brainrot” vocabulary [emerged from the over-commodification of speech](https://etymology.substack.com/p/how-brainrot-becomes-brainrot).

#### Financial Shenanigans in tech startups
[Bankruptcy Was Good for 23andMe - Bloomberg](https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/newsletters/2025-06-05/bankruptcy-was-good-for-23andme) #startups #revenue #profitability

> The great arbitrage is that nobody cares about a hot startup’s _profits_, but everybody cares about its _revenue._ If you sell $5 billion of artificial intelligence widgets, that’s amazing: It means that you have found product-market fit, that people love your AI widgets, that you will be able to scale and achieve a leading position in the AI widget space. If you have $6 billion of research and marketing costs, that’s _fine_, that’s _great_, venture capitalists will love you, they will understand that you have to invest a lot now to build the business; the profits can wait.
> 
> Whereas if you sell $10 million of AI widgets and have $5 million of costs, that is a higher net income, but not as exciting to investors looking for a home run.
> 
> And so if you are in the business of selling AI widgets, you might go to your mom and say “hey mom would you buy $1 billion of AI widgets from me,” and she would say “I’d love to honey but I don’t have $1 billion,” and you would say “that’s okay I’ll just buy $1 billion of cookies from you, which will give you the money to buy the widgets,” and she would say “but I’d have to bake a lot of cookies,” and you would say “no just bake one, the cookies are so good that I’ll pay a billion dollars for one,” and she would say “okay but do _you_ have $1 billion,” and you would say “no but it’s fine we’ll just net the transactions.” Or variations on that theme. We have [discussed](https://links.message.bloomberg.com/s/c/qNcCyO-w6K35z-dP3DCiCj55wFZ2ci42WSmuX8FUIWXNytVuWRY1EHPCsfigP7Oty4y1HLSmu6aIFuI-hxZlaMZrC9VnccUlm3rVK6Mv4Fre_LAEoGGEZpzPaVT6mrJAbYkBk0U1xUCSitpz0BdBcFfH2M1l-InrShbCjlAbXl1XX4i-ri7zzrFmpo0DAuOJWo6eb1NuOnhz5aiQfxQ72zVkl9OESFz4LlilvO4oTyq3qWeDs0SQiR_yD3ReWXhHZx3X7t6fGZ9ZCDxqkH0MM-p6GQ/BHL1tKBvKPs1Bf4zU3g-jr44pLoPBoHc/9) some of those [variations](https://links.message.bloomberg.com/s/c/7Qw9I0dXvIgsLeR02e7picQ31rmmqMGEg7v75zrgegba6DYUEhTtqLCOq8AwnlJ57a2PUhQAUv6t3M38BmismGkJLN6S7Lr1zF1vIEe9R-SINxnpLyaZHnwvehAHoEeAAJJh9Twd97BOBp9-rBABtU9QhZ_0YFIrbe7Hz9dFACnnJE1dg7RDQHqJZNYTkpNLQHdxs32_rWrMmr_YdUhiZTaO3A1fv3X84LYKctkGtAseCGSljVtNwu0YsLXFVPT0QpNmRjSpai3fiBwWl7HzqJWNgA/Uswx_VqN9O4fIBcwYBuBXgAGz650QnFK/9), which play a crucial role in a lot of tech market bubbles. As long as investors are investing on revenue rather than profitability, someone will find a way to pay for revenue.
> 
> It would be very weird if there was _none_ of this in the AI boom. Here’s [the Financial Times on Builder.ai](https://links.message.bloomberg.com/s/c/MJ_AG75hiwySFVrHS6lxcSp1mjlNIqBCBOW6B99d0zGnOB4ybF4AelzcfAVU9If_YwSmHouusyG9sKs3YsRngCqpCoNHY2SVgy-vglTJ0Ri8O7ihxii-eq18LPgs4L1RPgNFPTquUk71O5vnQ15-S0iuziTas87paMuksOzC2444IONsaJNVE5s08UEIwvBvoE9Lxgb2ZbQUHzA53IGW9U_biG3DOivqTfROl3hCjVS9KhIqyfsFaKAy64VPvDUIeV-S2SnKRqVH46pv4qR5w_G9o8WSjFESLraG-eDJD11I3rqXPqqT4ynHTApDbdNo1P_srqjQvbhPciGx/q3eYLHP7H01JIXMo_-XD51c2XJNOwSfP/9):

and in the same newsletter, something I would never understand

> As I often write around here, right now the US stock market will pay $2 for $1 worth of Bitcoin. This is most famously demonstrated by [MicroStrategy Inc.](https://www.bloomberg.com/opinion/articles/2024-10-31/microstrategy-has-stock-to-sell?sref=1kJVNqnU) (or just Strategy), a company with a $60 billion pot of Bitcoins and a $118 billion equity market capitalization,

#### Psychedelics in America
[A new psychedelic era dawns in America](https://on.ft.com/4dXtDN5) #psychedelics #mus