### 2025-09-23

#### Alexey Guzey on the insecurities of the privileged
[I ran out of money a year ago, spent the last of my savings on a prostitute in Hong Kong, and became a commie.](https://guzey.substack.com/p/i-ran-out-of-money-a-year-ago-spent?publication_id=8086&post_id=174298949&isFreemail=true&r=17wsq&triedRedirect=true) #success #humanity

> Many of my friends, no matter how successful and no matter how many gratitude affirmations they do, feel like the world is deeply uncaring, maybe even hostile towards them, ready to abandon them as soon as they stop being useful. In fact, the more successful they are, the more suspicious of people around them they become and the worse this feeling gets.
> 
> If there's at least one thing I learned this year, it's that even when I'm completely useless to the world, it's not going to abandon me. And I wish nothing more than to make sure that every single human, no matter who and where they are, knew this too.

#### Refining Taste
[Taste](https://www.moderndescartes.com/essays/taste/#refining-your-taste)

> As individuals, how can we refine our tastes? Some general advice:
> 
> - Great artists have great taste. Being able to recognize good work is a prerequisite to producing it.
> - You grow your taste by actively analyzing _why_ one option is more tasteful than another.
> - You develop taste by exposing yourself to more tasteful content. Finding a community is a fast-track to finding tasteful content.
> - You also develop taste by creating. Creation highlights the inherent limitations, constraints, and difficulties of the medium.
> - “What if” exercises – where you intentionally drop one ingredient and see what happens – are a great way to understand _why_ something is necessary, if it is necessary at all!
> - Always be looking for more tasteful communities. The beginner community is rarely the same as the advanced community, and both have a place in your journey.
> - Not all “advanced” communities have taste. You need taste to judge taste. (e.g. in software, many communities revolve around one flavor or another of pedantry, which is not equivalent to taste.)
> - Taste is contextual. Yet, someone with taste in one domain can weakly judge taste in a different domain. This video of [Chef Wang, an extremely tasteful Sichuan chef, trying a fine dining vegan restaurant](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=99oj1r02hGA) is _fascinating_.


#### Two types of ADHD
[In an era of split attention, there is more than one type of ADHD \| Psyche Ideas](https://psyche.co/ideas/in-an-era-of-split-attention-there-is-more-than-one-type-of-adhd)

> ADHD has long been seen as a neurodevelopmental condition, typically showing up in childhood with hallmarks like distractibility, impulsivity and restlessness. For years, scientists have known that this condition runs in families; genetics play a big role. Stimulant medications like Ritalin (methylphenidate) and Adderall (mixed amphetamine salts) – both of which boost the brain’s dopamine, a chemical messenger tied to focus and reward – are mainstays of treatment. They are often very helpful for those who need them.
> 
> This is the ‘classical’ form of ADHD, one that is thought to be wired into the brain from early on. People with this condition might struggle to sit still or to finish a task, but with the right support (structure, medication) they often thrive. Their self-control and focus commonly improve as they mature.
> 
> Recently, though, we have been making a [case](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/the-british-journal-of-psychiatry/article/genes-and-screens-attentiondeficit-hyperactivity-disorder-in-the-digital-age/D692E6A269DD6FCB2CF965814270EEB9) that a broader conceptualisation of ADHD is warranted. In our work as psychiatrists, we began seeing a subset of patients whose ADHD-related symptoms were barely nudged using the usual stimulant-plus-structure playbook. This pattern signalled an attention dysregulation that requires different remedies from the classical approach – and, in turn, a shift in how we understand the disorder.
> 
> Rather than being a single, uniform condition, we believe ADHD is best understood through a spectrum model. This spectrum is anchored at one end by a form rooted in biology, and at the other end by patterns that are shaped by modern digital life. We call these poles Type I and Type II ADHD. Most people fall somewhere between these poles, with both biology and environment shaping their attention to some degree. But we can use the two labels to distinguish cases based on what seems to be the predominant factor. Type I ADHD, the classical form, reflects neurodevelopmental traits. But for someone who is more Type II, the dysregulation may emerge later, driven largely by overstimulation in a screen-saturated world.

Here is a link to ther paper mentioned in the article: [Genes and screens: attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder in the digital age \| The British Journal of Psychiatry \| Cambridge Core](https://www.cambridge.org/core/journals/the-british-journal-of-psychiatry/article/genes-and-screens-attentiondeficit-hyperactivity-disorder-in-the-digital-age/D692E6A269DD6FCB2CF965814270EEB9)

#### Modern Monetary Theory: A Primer
[Modern Monetary Theory: A Primer - by Brett Scott](https://www.asomo.co/p/modern-monetary-theory-mmt-a-primer?publication_id=69390&post_id=174332328&triggerShare=true&isFreemail=true&r=17wsq&triedRedirect=true) #mmt #monetary-theory 

This is a must watch for folks, especially if they have never heard about MMT.

