### 2025-07-27
#### Why are we all so weird about cheating?
[Why are we all so weird about cheating? \| Dazed](https://www.dazeddigital.com/life-culture/article/68282/1/why-are-we-all-so-weird-about-cheating) #relationships #cheating #infidelity

> Writer [Amanda Montei](https://substack.com/@amandamontei/p-153917470) highlighted the nonsensical ways we attempt to punish and scold those who have cheated in her essay on the film _Babygirl_ for her Substack newsletter, Mad Woman. She mentions that when Romy (Nicole Kidman) reveals her affair with Samuel (Harris Dickinson) to her husband, played by Antonio Banderas, he yells at her and asserts that she has jeopardised their children and kicks her out. Montei simply asks, “How exactly has she hurt her children?” By having the kind of sex she actually wants to have? By acting and living for herself and not her children or husband? These are very different situations, obviously, and I am not here to cast moral judgement on these behaviours. But why should someone be stripped of everything for behaving the “wrong” way?

#### Overtourism in Japan
[Overtourism in Japan, and How it Hurts Small Businesses — Ridgeline issue 210](https://craigmod.com/ridgeline/210/) #japan #tourism

> A great city is typified by _character_ and the character of great cities is often built on the bedrock of small businesses. Conversely: Chain shops smooth over the character of cities into anodyne nothingness. Think about a city you love — it’s likely because of walkability, greenery, great architecture, and fun local shops and restaurants. Only psychopaths love Manhattan because of Duane Reade. If you’ve ever wondered why overtourism can be a kind of death for parts of a city (the parts that involve: living there, commuting there, creating a life there) it’s because it paradoxically disincentivizes building small businesses.[1](https://craigmod.com/ridgeline/210/?utm_source=hackernewsletter&utm_medium=email&utm_term=fav#fn:1) Nobody opens a tiny restaurant or café to be popular on a grand, viral scale. Nor do they open them to become rich.[2](https://craigmod.com/ridgeline/210/?utm_source=hackernewsletter&utm_medium=email&utm_term=fav#fn:2)
> 
> So why _do_ people open small shops? For any number of reasons, but my favorite is: They have a strong opinion about how some aspect of a business should be run, and they want to double down on it. For example, forty years ago Terui-san, the owner of jazz _kissa_ Kaiunbashi-no-Johnny’s up in Morioka, was like: Hmm, nobody is spinning _wa-jyazu_ (Japanese jazz),[3](https://craigmod.com/ridgeline/210/?utm_source=hackernewsletter&utm_medium=email&utm_term=fav#fn:3) so I’m _only_ going to rock it. That led to a bunch of cool knock-on connections, not the least of which was a lifelong friendship with the incredible [Akiyoshi Toshiko](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Toshiko_Akiyoshi). That singular _thing_ can drive an initial impulse, but small business purpose quickly shifts into: Being a community hub for a core group of regulars. That — community — is probably the biggest asset of small business ownership. And the quickest way to kill community (perhaps _the most valuable_ gift for running a small business) is to go viral in a damaging way.

> At risk of oversimplifying: Most “problems” in the world today boil down to scale and abstraction. As scale increases, individuals become more abstract, and humanity and empathy are lost. This happens acutely when the algorithm decides to laser-beam a small shop with a hundred-million views. If you cast a net to that many people, a vast chunk of them will not engage in good faith, let alone take a second to consider the feelings of residents or owners or why the place was built to begin with. Hence: The crush, the selfish crush.
> 
> Overtourism brings with it a corollary effect, what I call the “Disneyland flipflop.”[8](https://craigmod.com/ridgeline/210/?utm_source=hackernewsletter&utm_medium=email&utm_term=fav#fn:8) This happens when visitors fail to see (willfully or not) the place they’re visiting as an _actual city_ with humans living and working and building lives there, but rather as a place flipflopped through the lens of social media into a Disneyland, one to be pillaged commercially, assumed to reset each night for their pleasure, welcoming their transient deluge with open arms. This is most readily evident in, say, the [Mario Kart scourge](https://unseen-japan.com/mario-kart-company-charged/) of Tokyo — perhaps one of the most breathtakingly universally-hated tourist activities. I dare you to find a resident who supports these idiots disrupting traffic as the megalopolis attempts to function around them.[9](https://craigmod.com/ridgeline/210/?utm_source=hackernewsletter&utm_medium=email&utm_term=fav#fn:9)

> This overtourism is happening _mostly_ because of algorithms collimating the attention of the masses towards very specific activities / places. There’s also a slightly nutty narcissism / selfish component to it, too — fueling that impulse to, at all costs, “get” a photo at a specific spot to share on a specific social media service. (See: Fushimi Inari.) If the algorithm is the gas, cheapness is the spark. Because, damn, is it cheap to travel these days. Combined with the fact that there have never been more “middle class” people in the world, and you get overtourism. In a way, overtourism complications and disruptions are what happens when “humanity wins” and more people have more time and money to go “do things.”

> Because! Here’s the heartening bit: More people than ever are traveling, and while, sure, the majority of those travelers are just following trends and lists, there is another group, a small cohort of self-aware travelers who are genuinely, deeply curious about the places they’re visiting, who desire to engage directly without being disruptive, who want to engage fully and “authentically” (that is: visiting people and places that haven’t twisted themselves for the sake of transient visitors (i.e., no renaming things “samurai spice”)). And that “small cohort” (let’s say 15% of global travelers) is larger than the total number of travelers the world saw twenty years ago. Omotesando? Gion? They’re lost, like villages washed away by a tsunami. Much like I don’t understand the heart of a wave, I do not understand the hearts of those who come to Japan to buy a Rimowa suitcase. (Quite frankly, it really freaks me out!) And it is not our job to understand.
> 
> …
> 
> These kinds of folks buoy the chest, elevate the soul (like witnessing a person stand on an escalator and just stare into the distance, refusing the Siren call of their smartphone). I don’t know if there’s some Platonic or deontic mode of travel, but in my opinion, the most rewarding _point_ of travelling is: to sit with, and spend time with The Other (even if the place / people aren’t all that different). To go off the beaten track a bit, just a bit, to challenge yourself, to find a nook of quietude, and to try to take home some goodness (a feeling, a moment) you might observe off in the wilds of Iwate or Aomori. That little bundle of goodness, filtered through your own cultural ideals — that’s good globalism at work. With an ultimate goal of doing all this without imposing on or overloading the locals. To being an additive part of the economy (financially and culturally), to commingling with regulars without displacing them.


#### algorithmic performativity
[algorithmic performativity - by Adam Aleksic](https://etymology.substack.com/p/algorithmic-performativity) #social-media #algorithms

> Chat, we all act differently when we’re being watched. There’s a pressure to avoid embarrassment, to present “authentically,” to put others at ease.
> 
> Sociologist Erving Goffman calls this _performance_—the idea that all public interactions are a kind of theatrical act. You’ll put on a different performance for your college friends and your grandmother; TV broadcasters will put on a different performance when on air and behind the scenes.
>
> In the same way, social media algorithms are uniquely changing how we present ourselves online, since they come with a completely new type of spectator: the algorithm itself.

#### how social media subjugates us
[how social media subjugates us - by Adam Aleksic](https://etymology.substack.com/p/how-social-media-subjugates-us) #social-media #dominance 

> Throughout this parasocial interaction, we’ve both adopted social roles that come with an imbued set of norms and behaviors. You, the viewer, are in an assigned role of docility. I, the influencer, am in an assigned role of dominance. With each repetition of this dance, we internalize our roles a little bit more. Even though I started out as some random guy yapping on the internet, my role over time is mutually legitimized and I begin to take on greater credibility in your mind.

> To be clear, I as an influencer also submit myself to the platform, much like a supplicant to a ruler. I need to replicate “viral-looking” mannerisms and expressions; I need to [perform for the algorithm](https://etymology.substack.com/p/algorithmic-performativity) by [submitting to its constraints](https://etymology.substack.com/p/the-perils-of-online-communication). My studio lighting and “influencer accent” are forms of aesthetic labor validating the platform’s priorities. Then you perceive my message on the toilet and do the same, and we both give more power to the technology mediating our interaction.

#### what i'm looking for in my marriage
[What I'm looking for in my marriage - by Sasha Chapin](https://sashachapin.substack.com/p/what-im-looking-for-in-my-marriage?r=17wsq&triedRedirect=true) #marriage #relationships

* Relationship as crucible that allows both people to confront their central insecurities and grow through them together
* Goal of relationship is to create a space for both people to have full range of emotions and be cared for, not to manage each other into having nice feelings all the time
* Openness about sexuality and ongoing care in giving everyone what they actually want in that department
* Both partners taking accountability for having an outside support network (no attempt to make each other everything)
* Both partners taking accountability for their reactions, you understand how to soothe yourself when triggered rather than taking it out on each other
* Ongoing see-saw balance is struck between togetherness and separation, don’t smother and don’t abandon
* Conflict is a non-problem, an expected occurrence that is handled ASAP skillfully
- Both partners try to give 100%, accept that there are imbalances, keep scorekeeping to a minimum
- Self-disclosure is very frank but not completely uninhibited or thoughtless

#### The complications of measuring things
[The Luxury of Fudged Numbers - by Josh Zlatkus](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/the-luxury-of-fudged-numbers) #numbers #money #measurement

> The drawback to money as a concrete and concentrated form of value is that it crowds out other valuations. At many a cocktail party, wealth is the lowest common denominator of worth. Another downside is that many people are tempted to pursue money well beyond what would represent the best use of their time. Golden handcuffs have imprisoned many in the most productive years of their lives.

> Now here’s the thing: even after reading this, you’ll be tempted to filter by height. Why? Because height is a preference, after all, and when accurate information is available, why _not_ use it? The problem is that when something is easy to measure, it tends to crowd out better—but fuzzier—metrics. For example, is weight the best proxy for health? Absolutely not. But it’s easier to capture than VO₂ max. Similarly, is bench press the best determinant of overall strength? No, but it’s more concrete than core strength. So we run with it.

> One overlooked consequence of numbers is that they enable the quantification of things that were never meant to be that precise. Without numbers, you can’t specify height. You can’t reduce a person’s value to how much money they make. You can’t compare thoughts, jokes, or creative projects by how much attention they receive. Essentially, much of the harm this essay talks about loses its razor-sharp edge.
> 
> Many small-scale societies developed additional ways to blunt the edge of social competition. In _[Work: A Deep History, from the Stone Age to the Age of Robots](https://www.amazon.com/Work-Deep-History-Stone-Robots/dp/0525561757)_, James Suzman describes how the Ju/’hoansi assign credit not to the person who shoots the animal, but to the maker of the arrow that brings it down. The purpose of this and related practices is to “cool young men’s hearts”—to temper pride and prevent vanity.
> 
> Other examples include the many games of chance that foraging peoples play—often for hours on end. As Sahlins said of the Hazda: “[The] men seem much more concerned with games of chance than with chances of game.” By minimizing the role of skill, these games ensure that every dog has its day. I find something very wise in these old and various ways of softening a loser’s pain, given that most of the time, most people are losing.
> 
> Modern metrics give unnatural precision to inherently fuzzy social dynamics. When social life remains loose and informal, and advantages remain imprecise, emotions soften. But the more we quantify, the sharper the comparisons become—and the more those comparisons hurt.

#### Gaza
[Chartbook 400: Murder not crisis - Why Israel's starvation of Gaza is exceptional in a global context.](https://adamtooze.substack.com/p/chartbook-400-not-crisis-but-murder) #gaza #palestine #israel #genocide

> For many months, it has been beyond reasonable doubt that the Israeli government, the Israeli military, sections of Israeli politics and society as well as their aiders and abetters abroad, have been deliberately starving the population of Gaza with a view to forcing the population either to flee or to face intensifying misery and ultimately an agonizing death. There is clear evidence of deliberate intent going back to 2023. This clearly warrants charges of genocide.
> 
> Those who style themselves “defenders of Israel” will be quick to insist that, in fact, there is a feeding operation in Gaza. But, as the famine historian and aid expert Alex de Waal demonstrates in powerful piece in the Guardian, “Israel’s food points are not just death traps – they’re an alibi … The Gaza Humanitarian Foundation system is like standing at the edge of a big pond and feeding the (starving) fish by throwing breadcrumbs. Who gets to eat its rations?” Air drops of food, are simply more of the same.
>
> Ethnic cleansing by means of starvation is the actual policy.


> Death by starvation in Gaza is not the collateral, unintended consequence of an obscure, anonymous, amorphous crisis. It is the results of deliberate policy on the part of the Israeli government, bent on using the resources of a highly sophisticated state to render Palestinian life in Gaza impossible.

#### GenZ
[Why everyone hates Gen Z workers - by Ellen Scott](https://workingonpurposenewsletter.substack.com/p/why-everyone-hates-gen-z-workers?triedRedirect=true) #genz #workplace 

> far back as the fourth century BC there’s evidence of Aristotle criticising the generation below him for the way they approach hard graft: “They are high-minded, for they have not yet been humbled by life, nor have they experienced the force of necessity”. In the first century BC, “the beardless youth” are described as not knowing how to manage their money. There’s no hard evidence of younger-generation-bashing in the years of children working in factories, but I’d confidently bet it happened, especially when young people dared to ask for better working conditions. In 1894, the Rooks County Record in Stockton, Kansas, published a reader’s letter that accused ‘nobody wants to work these hard times’.
> 
> In 1990, Gen X were referred to as the slacker generation, with Time magazine stating that workers born between 1965 and 1980 “would rather hike in the Himalayas than climb a corporate ladder” and have attention spans “as short as one zap of a TV dial”. In 2017, it was millennials who were called “spoilt, full of themselves [and] averse to hard work”. Now it’s Gen Z’s turn in the firing line.
> 
> But why does this happen? Why do we keep viewing the generation below us as bad at work? Why did everyone hate Gen X, then millennials, and why do we now hate Gen Z?

Why does everyone hate Gen Z workers? Because we’ve all been told to. Because an ‘us’ and ‘them’ mentality, with Gen Z workers as ‘them’ is far better for bosses than one in which it’s all workers versus those at the top. It’s better that we keep squabbling at each other like crabs in a big bucket, rather than us pausing and questioning the very structure of the bucket, or deciding to group together and attack the crab fisherman. And if that squabbling can be monetised, even greater news!

I urge you, the next time you’re lured in by Gen Z sniping, pause and consider what’s going on behind the take you’re being served up by your algorithm. Are Gen Z workers really lazy, entitled, or rude? Or is your own outrage being manufactured and weaponised against you? Who’s benefitting when we see work/life boundaries and those who ask for them negatively? And who’s losing out? Spoiler: It’s not just Gen Z.