### 2025-05-16
#### Navigating by aliveness
[The Imperfectionist: Navigating by aliveness](https://ckarchive.com/b/zlughnhk8772ma7qrr9qehwzgng00f6) 

from Oliver Burkeman's latest

> The concept that sits right at the heart of a sane and meaningful life, I’m increasingly convinced, is something like _aliveness_. It goes by other names, too, none of which quite nail it – but it’s the one thing that, so long as you navigate by it, you’ll never go too far wrong. Sometimes it feels like a subtle electrical charge behind what’s happening, or a mildly heightened sense of clarity, or sometimes like nothing I can put into words at all. I freely concede it’s a hopelessly unscientific idea. But I’m pretty sure it’s what [Joseph Campbell](https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/92u2poglkotnh6lxxveh9hz5d6d33cw/8ghqhoho3lke30tk/aHR0cHM6Ly9leGNlbGxlbmNlcmVwb3J0ZXIuY29tLzIwMTUvMDcvMjEvam9zZXBoLWNhbXBiZWxsLXRoZS1tZWFuaW5nLWFuZC10aGUtZ29hbC1vZi1saWZlLw==) meant when he said that most of us aren’t really seeking the meaning of life, but rather “an experience of being alive… so that we actually feel the rapture” – although personally I don’t think it’s always rapturous, per se – “of being alive.”

feeling _better_ vs _feeling_ better.

> Crucially, aliveness isn’t the same as happiness. As the Zen teacher Christian Dillo explains in his engrossing book [_The Path of Aliveness_](https://www.shambhala.com/the-path-of-aliveness-9781611809978.html), you can absolutely feel alive in the midst of intense sadness. Aliveness, he writes, “isn’t about feeling _better_; it’s about _feeling_ better.” When I feel aliveness in my work, it’s not because every task is an unadulterated pleasure; and when I feel it in my close relationships, it’s not because I’ve transcended the capacity to get annoyed by other people – because believe me, I haven’t.

I love how this newsletter managed to squeeze in commentary about large language models

> Most obviously, aliveness is what generally feels absent from the written and visual outputs of ChatGPT and its ilk, even when they’re otherwise of high quality. I’m not claiming I couldn’t be fooled into thinking AI writing or art was made by a human (I’m sure I already have been); but that when I realise something’s AI, either because it’s blindingly obvious or when I find out, it no longer feels so alive to me. And that this change in my feelings about it isn’t irrelevant: that it means something.
> 
> Meanwhile, aliveness is certainly missing from the future [envisioned recently by Mark Zuckerberg](https://uk.pcmag.com/ai/157909/need-more-friends-mark-zuckerberg-says-ai-is-the-answer), in which the loneliness epidemic will be somehow alleviated by artificial friends – a gang of pals who are always there for you, in every respect, except for the fact that they lack the capacity to know that you even exist.
> 
> More subtly, it feels like our own aliveness is what’s at stake when we’re urged to get better at prompting LLMs to provide the most useful responses. Maybe that’s a necessary modern skill; but still, the fact is that we’re being asked to think less like ourselves and more like our tools. It makes you wonder if Wendell Berry had it right when he wrote: “It is easy for me to imagine that the next great division of the world will be between people who wish to live as creatures and people who wish to live as machines.”

#### The Global Matcha Boom
[Matcha TikTok Craze Has Japan Facing Tea Shortage, Raising Prices - Bloomberg](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2025-02-27/matcha-tiktok-craze-has-japan-facing-tea-shortage-raising-prices?sref=6rqLu4ZS) #matcha #economics

> Matcha’s delicate supply chain is partly culpable for the shortage. The powder is made from ground-up shade-grown tea leaves, known as tencha, that are usually [harvested once a year](https://www.marukyu-koyamaen.co.jp/english/about-tea/know-matcha.html#:~:text=Tea%20leaves%20grown%20for%20matcha,of%20less%20than%20two%20months. "Growing and Processing of Matcha"). Although tencha production is on the rise, Japan's tea industry as a whole is grappling with an aging population and a lack of successors willing to take over. To meet global demand, the government is [considering measures](https://www.maff.go.jp/j/seisan/tokusan/cha/attach/pdf/230929-4.pdf) to encourage more farmers to shift production toward tencha away from other forms of green tea.

Also form this podcast transcript: [Japan Matcha Shortage: TikTok Craze, Tourism Boom Drive Demand - Bloomberg](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2025-03-19/japan-matcha-shortage-tiktok-craze-tourism-boom-drive-demand?cmpid=BBD051525_prognosis&sref=6rqLu4ZS)

> **Ha:** While Japanese have been drinking less green tea over the years – outside of Japan, the appetite for matcha is expanding. Cafes and tea stores as far as Sydney in Australia, have seen sales skyrocket, forcing owners to limit customer purchases because they’re unable to source more of the tea powder from Japan. After the break, why can’t Japanese tea producers just… make more matcha?
> 
> **Ha:** Growing fine quality matcha has a lot to do with the land and the climate. The plant needs to be shaded. The soil needs to drain well, but also retain a decent amount of water. And while matcha is produced in a variety of regions in Japan, there’s one particular place renowned for this highly-prized tea.
> 
> **Glass:** So the most famous region is Uji, which is on the southeast border of Kyoto. And that's where matcha farmers have mastered techniques of growing and harvesting the best matcha, and they've been doing this for centuries.

> **Ha:** So that does sound like a long and arduous process – but certainly not impossible, right? Why can’t supply just keep up with the demand?
> 
> **Glass:** Yeah, so the whole process that I just described, it only happens once a year for the most premium types of matcha, so farmers can't harvest more on demand. The annual supply is usually determined well in advance. And it's obviously a really slow, precise process as well. So the traditional stone mills only grind about 40 grams of matcha per hour. And specialized matcha processing machines are super limited in number. So increasing production speed would definitely compromise the quality of the matcha. And also a lot of these types of produce are pretty much made by family-run businesses in Japan, and obviously Japan has a declining population, it's aging, and there's not enough people to take over those farms in the future, so there's really just a decline in supply for that reason as well.

#### 