### 2025-09-16
#### Oracle's Quarterly Results
[Oracle and Animal Spirits - by Doug O'Laughlin](https://www.fabricatedknowledge.com/p/oracle-and-animal-spirits?hide_intro_popup=true)

> Oracle just posted the single most astonishing quarter I have seen since Nvidia’s blowout in May 2023. A reminder is that it was the quarter where Nvidia guided to 100% Y/Y growth and shocked markets after the ChatGPT moment. It has been almost a straight line to becoming the world’s most valuable company since then. Oracle’s guidance is staggering for a different reason: its sheer magnitude.
>
> This was the largest one-day move in any stock’s history by absolute value. Larry Ellison also became the wealthiest person alive in the span of a trading day.

> The driver of this sudden leap is clear: **OpenAI**. Microsoft has slowed its spending; Oracle has filled the gap, becoming OpenAI’s primary infrastructure partner. That single customer dominates Oracle’s RPO. And if Oracle leverages its entrenched database franchise, it could become enterprises’ default inference partner as well. In one fell swoop, they are now the addressable inference partner for the majority of enterprises globally.

> It is worth recalling that Oracle’s database remains the most widely used globally—still the gold standard for ERP, CRM, and data warehousing. PostgreSQL and MongoDB may be fashionable, but feature parity remains elusive. On DB-rankings.com, Oracle remains in first place. A reminder is that this chart is logarithmic, so the gap between competitors appears wider than it actually is. Oracle actually is the most dominant database in the world.

#### Quarterly Reporting

Trust Matt Levine to come up with an insightfu

> The basic model is that a company has managers, and it has shareholders. The managers run the company; the shareholders own a share of its future profits. The shareholders want the company to maximize its profits over the long run; that is, in the classical theory, all they want.[3](https://www.bloomberg.com/news/articles/2025-09-14/byd-s-45-billion-stock-wipeout-raises-doubts-on-china-outlook?sref=6rqLu4ZS#footer-ref-footnote-3) The managers want (1) that but also (2) other things. The managers might want to pay themselves a lot or have a lot of free time or be prestigious or hobnob with celebrities or hire their shiftless nephews; there are reasons that incentives might be misaligned. Or the managers might be entirely conscientious and loyal, but not very good at their jobs.
> 
> So the shareholders would like some way to know what the company’s long-run future profits will be, and whether the managers are doing a good job of maximizing them. There are two principal ways to find out:
> 
> 1. The company will periodically disclose _how it is doing now:_ It will report its earnings for the last year or quarter, it will talk about how business is going, etc., and from these disclosures shareholders can get a sense of how the business works and extrapolate that into the future.
> 2. The managers can go around saying “oh man, we are going to make so much money for you, just you wait.”