### 2025-03-04
#### The Return of Romanticism
[We Really Are Entering a New Age of Romanticism](https://www.honest-broker.com/p/we-really-are-entering-a-new-age) #culture 

An article from Ted Gioia which gave me a lot of hope.

> In the old days, movie villains were mobsters or crime syndicates. Nowadays they are _tech innovators_. This kind of shift in the popular imagination does not happen by chance.
> 
> Now let’s revisit the (even older) history.
> 
> Back in the 1700s, ruthless algorithms had a different name. They called them Rationalism—and the whole Western world was under the sway of the Age of Reason. But like today’s algorithms, the new systems of the Rationalists attempted to replace human wisdom and experience with intrusive and inflexible operating rules.
> 
> It didn’t work.
> 
> “This rationalistic philosophy, which had been expected to solve all the problems, had failed to rescue society from either despotism and poverty,” explains Edmund Wilson in his masterful study _To the Finland Station_.
> 
> “The mechanical inventions of which it had been expected that they would vastly improve the lot of humanity were obviously making many people miserable,” he continues.
> 
> (By the way, it’s no coincidence that recent tech overreach has been accompanied by a [New Rationalism](https://davidzmorris.substack.com/p/whats-so-bad-about-rationalism), championed by crypto swindler Sam Bankman-Fried and his many fellow travelers. But that subject deserves a whole article of its own….Now let’s return to history.)
> 
> The Rationalists of the 1700s (and today) put their faith in three things—and they all backfired.
> 
> (1) The most obvious failure was the attempt to impose rational rules on the political system. This led to the French Revolution, which soon collapsed in terrible bloodshed, and resulted in the dictatorship of Napoleon.
> 
> Millions of people died because the dominant algorithms didn’t work.
> 
> (2) The second obsession of the Rationalists in the 1700s was the total systematization of all knowledge. (Does that sound familiar?)
> 
> They didn’t have ChatGPT back then. But they did the best they could with the immense efforts of the [French Encyclopedists](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Encyclop%C3%A9distes) and [German taxonomists](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Category:German_taxonomists).
> 
> Everything got classified, codified, quantified, named, and placed on a chart. Foucault later mocked this as an “archeology of human sciences.”
> 
> Everything was forced into the system—even (or especially) humans.
> 
> That’s because this way of understanding the world failed to grasp anything that evolved or grew or changed or lived. Like the tech-gone-wild ethos of the current day, the messy human element was removed from the Rationalist systems.
> 
> (3) But the Rationalists of the 1700s made one more mistake—and it reminds us again of our current situation. They let a brutal technocracy destroy people’s lives—driven by dreams of profit maximization, and ignoring the human cost.
> 
> It wasn’t called Silicon Valley back then. The name given to the technocracy in the 1700s was the _Industrial Revolution_.
> 
> We don’t fully grasp the horrors of the factory sweat shops today—because the Romanticists worked on fixing the problems of industrialism in the 1820s and 1830s. This new generation of artists, humanists, and compassionate critics of the technocracy passed laws against child labor, unsafe working conditions, abusive hours, and other exploitative practices.
> 
> In other words, the _Romanticists replaced the algorithm with humanist values_. Rationalism on its own would never do that.
#### Canva Design Essentials
[Graphic Design Essentials](https://www.canva.com/designschool/courses/graphic-design-essentials/) #canva #design

Decided to watch this video series from [Canva's Design School](https://www.canva.com/designschool/) collection on a whim. Finally took the time to properly go through the color theory stuff which is well explained.

#### Freelancing as Software Engineer
Came across a couple of articles this week that contained some good tips on how to get freelancing gigs. #freelancer #jobs #software 

* [Getting Software Engineering Jobs](https://ludic.mataroa.blog/blog/ludics-guide-to-getting-software-engineering-jobs/?utm_source=changelog-news)
* [freelancing: how I got clients part 1](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=43158262)

#### Nerd Reich
[The Nerd Reich](https://www.thenerdreich.com/) #silicon #valley #politics #fascism

Have to admit this is a great name for a newsletter by Gil Duran that critiques the politics of Silicon Valley. He has been at it for a long time now, long before current political developments post the presidential elections.

He came on the Angry Planet podcast and did a scathing takedown of the current administration and its policies: [Welcome to the Nerd Reich - Angry Planet (podcast) | Listen Notes](https://www.listennotes.com/podcasts/angry-planet/welcome-to-the-nerd-reich-RK3AJLmr2Pw/)

Some excerpts from the podcast transcript.

About Curtis Yarvin

> So we're gonna get real granular with some of the stuff at the top, and explain some of the personalities. Who is Curtis Yarvin? Speaker 4: Curtis Yarvin is a software programmer mostly based in San Francisco who in the early two thousands started writing under the name Mintius Moldbug, a series of essays largely focused on the need to replace democracy with dictatorship. Back then, he's sort of an anonymous troll, not using his real name. People who'd known him a long time say he's always been like that and people probably didn't take him too seriously. But he caught the ear of some important people eventually. Most notable, Peter Thiel, who, by, you know, a few years later was investing along with Andreessen Horowitz in Curtis Charbon's software idea for something called Urbit to create this decentralized peer to peer computer network, you know, on libertarian vision. And he was became known for his ideas as Peter Thiel's house philosopher. And he's continued to write these things in, in subsequent years and laying out more aggressively and in more detail how one might go about replacing a democratic government with a sort of corporate tech dictatorship.

About pseudo-intellectualism in Silicon Valley:

> The critique seems to be that democracy doesn't work and it's bad and it hasn't solved all the problems and it just creates more problems. But no no the the other part to understand about these guys is that they're not intellectuals. They are pseudo intellectuals. They pretend to be smart. They pretend to understand things like history.
> 
> Look, I'm not a historian. Right? Studied a lot of politics, but I'm not a political scientist. These guys act like they're all a bit altogether, political science, historian. But when you look at what they're actually doing, and I'm working on a piece actually that categorizes their argument style because they all have it in common.
> 
> They take something in history, completely misinterpret or warp it, cherry pick whatever facts they want, all to fit their thesis and try to say that everything in history proves that what I'm saying is right. Now a critical thinker and an intellectual is also aware of the contradicting information and you have to make your presumptions and your predictions based on a more nuanced version of things. For instance, I think that most tyrannies have a history of collapsing and being overthrown. And I think that'll happen with whatever these guys are trying to do. However, in history, we see that sometimes tyranny can last a few decades or longer.
>
> So the question is, will this last a long time? Ten, twenty years, the rest of our productive lives? Or can we overthrow it, overturn it in a couple of years in the next election or whatever. Right? So, you know, but they cherry pick the information and pretend they know what they're talking about.

On the Silicon Valley ideology

> Speaker 3: Oh, yeah. That's true. Anyway, but, it the Silicon Valley ethos, I mean what? Yeah. I mean, if I create a video game, am I gonna become a total asshole?
> 
> Speaker 2: Mhmm. Yes. Okay.
> 
> Speaker 4: There are a few who don't seem to be like that, but I do think that it gives rise to this sort of, idea of supremacy. That you are of a superior intelligence because you understand technology and because you have managed to make a lot, a lot of money. And it's something I observed while I was working in politics was it seemed to me that if you have power, then you want money. If you have money, then you want power. If you want both, then you kinda wanna live forever and be God, and that's where you start to have a problem.
> 
> And so I think we're at the part where the the people with money have realized that they have power, they're using it. And And we're also starting to see that their ideology their ideology get really, really weird, and they're starting to talk a lot more about God and living forever and getting off the planet and being bigger than being human. And so I think that theory that I kind of thought up a long time ago that crossed my mind came is is coming to fruition because we do see this weird interesting turn, you know, there's this there's this bundle of ideologies that, a couple of researchers, Timnit Gebru and Emil Torres put together called tescreal, t e s c r e a l. Transhumanism, exotropianism, singularitarianism, rationalism, cosmism, effective altruism, and longtermism. I can't believe I remembered all of them off the top of my head.
> 
> But it's this I these ideas that have bubbled up out of Silicon Valley that essentially amount to an ideology of tech supremacy. We are smarter than everyone. We are richer than everyone, and a desired destiny to rule the world. And you see this coming out in terms of this sort of abundance agenda, which basically amounts to, let tech people do whatever they want without regulation and they'll save us. Right?

Podcast summary by ChatGPT here: 