### 2025-02-21
#### What is your lore
[How Deep Is Your Lore? - WSJ](https://archive.ph/3G0ge)

I love an article that goes deep and deconstructs what might otherwise be considered random genz slang.

> Lore is valuable online currency these days. [A finalist](https://archive.ph/o/3G0ge/https://corp.oup.com/word-of-the-year/%23shortlist-2024) for Oxford Dictionary’s 2024 word of the year (it lost to [“brain rot”](https://archive.ph/o/3G0ge/https://www.wsj.com/style/brain-rot-oxford-word-of-year-online-culture-31f72e93)), this Old English word for knowledge has become slang for dramatic, and often traumatic, details that define a person’s existence. Driven by the impulse to self-mythologize and spin yarns, young people are enshrining even the most minor incidents as essential public knowledge.
> 
> “It makes your life sound like something that has these hidden facets that people would really want to know about,” said Dan Walden, 36, a humanities professor at the University of Tulsa. “Instead of just saying, ‘I had depression when I was 16,’ it sounds more mystical to say, ‘That’s my lore.’”
> 
> Wound-baring confessionals have long been a surefire way to get likes and views on social media. Influencers use [“get ready with me” videos](https://archive.ph/o/3G0ge/https://www.wsj.com/articles/get-ready-with-me-tiktok-61d6810) to pair their makeup routines with intimate, sometimes painful personal stories as a way to build connections with viewers. Now, many of those videos include “lore drops”—not only personal stories but gossip and hearsay.

…

> “Online, there is a kind of consciousness of your identity, an awareness of how you’re projecting your qualities, and so to that extent, you are playing a role,” Sokolowski said. “And lore conveys character, conveys narrative, conveys deep history, like ancient history.”

#### Woke
[Opinion | How ‘Woke’ Became the ‘Woke Right’ (and Why It Shouldn’t Surprise Anyone) - The New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/02/20/opinion/the-long-strange-trail-of-woke.html)

More interesting stuff about the origins of the word _woke_

> “Woke” has often been reported (including by me, previously) as first appearing in print in 1962, in [an article about “Negro” slang](https://www.nytimes.com/1962/05/20/archives/if-youre-woke-you-dig-it-no-mickey-mouse-can-be-expected-to-follow.html) published by The Times. But my colleague Emily Berch has recently brought to my attention that in 1940 the Negro United Mine Workers, a West Virginia labor union, issued a statement that included the lines, “We were asleep. But we will stay woke from now on.”
> 
> The blues singer Huddie Ledbetter gave us the [first](https://the-past.com/comment/on-the-origins-of-woke/) “woke” on record — pun intended — on a 1938 recording of his song “Scottsboro Boys,” urging us to “stay woke.” “Staying woke” meant understanding that there are larger forces operating to keep power unequally distributed in our society, disfavoring especially the poor and people of color. Genevieve Larkin, the wisenheimer social climber in the film “Gold Diggers of 1937,” might not have known the term, but she was getting at something similar when she said, “It’s so hard to be good under the capitalistic system!”
> 
> Why “woke” rather than “woken”? Black English tends to collapse the past tense and the participle forms of verbs. Textbook English is present tense “sink,” past tense “sank” and participle “sunk.” Black English is just “sink” and “sunk,” a simplification that’s been catching on more broadly for some time.

…

> This is how language change happens, and it is happening especially quickly these days in the language we use to talk about culture and politics. The language is morphing to an extent hard to process day to day.
> 
> …
> 
> Now take this sentence: “The woke right oppose D.E.I. programs, the conception of ‘trans’ as an identity, gender-affirming care for minors, and terms referring to groups such as Latinx and BIPOC.” These unfamiliar uses of “woke,” “D.E.I.” and “trans” and the novel terms “gender-affirming,” “Latinx” and “BIPOC” would not strike someone from even just 15 years ago as Swedish, but would be nearly as incomprehensible. Much of our English vocabulary is in a kind of hypercharge of late, and this is why “woke” has seemed to be such a slippery shape-shifter.

#### The psychological centre of gravity
[The Imperfectionist: Reality is right here](https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/e5u0wrd73ru7hlln878t8h8r5g222tl/7qh7h8hoge3779sz/aHR0cHM6Ly9ja2FyY2hpdmUuY29tL2IvNHp1dmhlaHBwMjRtNHQ2b3Z2ZW9sYTZnOXo3NzdzNQ==)

> This edition of _The Imperfectionist_ won’t be answering that question conclusively, I’m afraid. But there’s one piece of advice I’m confident applies to basically everyone: as far as you can manage it, you should **make sure your psychological centre of gravity is in your real and immediate world** – the world of your family and friends and neighborhood, your work and your creative projects, as opposed to the world of presidencies and governments, social forces and global emergencies.
> 
> This will make you happier. It will make you more meaningfully productive. And to whatever extent it falls to you to be an active citizen – to be engaged in politics, say, or in otherwise addressing world events – it’ll make you better at that, too. There really is no downside.

…

> One very good way to tell that your centre of gravity is out of whack is when it feels like you spend a lot of time inside the minds of far-off strangers. As the philosopher [Byung-Chul Han points out](https://click.convertkit-mail2.com/e5u0wrd73ru7hlln878t8h8r5g222tl/dpheh0h03xrggqtm/aHR0cHM6Ly9kaXJlY3QubWl0LmVkdS9ib29rcy9ib29rLzQ5MDUvSW4tdGhlLVN3YXJtRGlnaXRhbC1Qcm9zcGVjdHM=), the internet – contrary to the dreams of its hippie pioneers – hasn’t created a flourishing, supersized, wonderfully democratic public sphere in which we all get to constructively debate the issues of the day. Instead it _erodes_ the public sphere, by connecting our minds directly to the unedited neediness, rage or fear inside everyone else’s minds, which in turn trigger such reactions in us. And so to follow American politics at the moment isn’t merely to follow the activities of Elon Musk, but to feel overly familiar with his twitchy and emotionally reactive inner life as well. This isn’t healthy. To get along successfully with each other, Han argues, we need a certain psychological distance, some cognitive privacy. There’s some appropriate level of such privacy between me and my wife, for goodness’s sake, so you’d better believe there’s one between me and Musk.

#### Reasons for drop in software engineering vacancies
[Software engineering job openings hit five-year low? - The Pragmatic Engineer](https://blog.pragmaticengineer.com/software-engineer-jobs-five-year-low/)

> The numbers don’t lie, job listings for devs have plummeted. There’s a few potential reasons why:

- GenAI impact
- Interest rate changes explain some of the drop, but not everything
- The tech sector seems to react to sudden events with more intensity than any other industry
- A perception that engineering is no longer a bottleneck could be a reason for lower hiring
- Still too many engineers, after overrecruitment in 2021-2022?
- Are smaller teams more efficient?

and finally

> **I’m sure that LLMs are a leading cause of the fall in software developer job postings:** there’s uncertainty at large companies about whether to hire as fast as previously, given the productivity hype around AI tooling, and businesses are opting to “wait and see” by slowing down recruitment, as a result.