### 2025-03-02
#### Stablecoins
[Stablecoins: the real crypto craze](https://www.economist.com/finance-and-economics/2025/02/23/stablecoins-the-real-crypto-craze) #crypto #stablecoin #finance 

> stablecoins are increasingly used for real-world purposes, too. Migrants send remittances with them, replacing a correspondent-banking system beset by high fees and delays. The Turkish trader says that shopkeepers in the Grand Bazaar pay suppliers with the coins as they are the fastest option. In countries where inflation erodes savings and dollars are scarce, they are catching on as a store of value. A survey of stablecoin-holders in Turkey and four other emerging markets by Castle Island Ventures, which invests in crypto startups, and Visa, a payments giant, finds that nearly half use them for this purpose.

> Oversight is not all bad for stablecoins, facilitating interest from mainstream finance. Stripe, a payments firm, has bought Bridge, a stablecoin-infrastructure startup. Visa has built a platform to help lenders issue coins; BBVA, Spain’s second-largest bank, will be among the first to use it, perhaps for money transfers. Stablecoins have shown their value in the backrooms of the Grand Bazaar. Their next task is to do so in the regulators’ offices and boardrooms of Washington and Wall Street.

#### Being Independent
[Pure Independence · Collab Fund](https://collabfund.com/blog/pure-independence/) #self-help #self-improvement #independence

Great piece by Morgan Housel

> I have seen many people achieve some level of financial independence only to be sucked into a new kind of dependence: the culture of their tribe. Financial freedom is achieved, but it’s replaced with sycophancy to a new boss, or a blind adherence to tribal views you might disagree with deep down.
>
> It’s a unique form of poverty: rather than needing to work for money, you are indebted to needing to think a certain way.
>
> I once heard a good litmus test: If I can predict your views on one topic by hearing your views about another, unrelated topic, you are not thinking independently. Example: If your views on immigration allow someone to accurately predict your views on abortion and gun control, there’s a good chance you’re not thinking independently.

#### Grid and Flexbox Visual CHeatsheets
Nice visual cheatsheets. #grid #flexbox #css #cheatsheet #tools
- [GRID: A simple visual cheatsheet for CSS Grid Layout](https://grid.malven.co/)
- [FLEX: A simple visual cheatsheet for flexbox](https://flexbox.malven.co/)

#### Personal Renewal by John Gardener

> We've all seen men and women, even ones in fortunate circumstances with responsible positions who seem to run out of steam in midcareer.  
>
> One must be compassionate in assessing the reasons. Perhaps life just presented them with tougher problems than they could solve. It happens. Perhaps something inflicted a major wound on their confidence or their self-esteem. Perhaps they were pulled down by the hidden resentments and grievances that grow in adult life, sometimes so luxuriantly that, like tangled vines, they immobilize the victim. You've known such people -- feeling secretly defeated, maybe somewhat sour and cynical, or perhaps just vaguely dispirited. Or maybe they just ran so hard for so long that somewhere along the line they forgot what it was they were running for.

> "Meaning is not something you stumble across, like the answer to a riddle or the prize in a treasure hunt. Meaning is something you build into your life. You build it out of your own past, out of your affections and loyalties, out of the experience of humankind as it is passed on to you, out of your own talent and understanding, out of the things you believe in, out of the things and people you love, out of the values for which you are willing to sacrifice something. The ingredients are there. You are the only one who can put them together into that unique pattern that will be your life. Let it be a life that has dignity and meaning for you. If it does, then the particular balance of success or failure is of less account."

> I'm not talking about anything as narrow as ambition. After all, ambition eventually wears out and probably should. But you can keep your zest until the day you die. If I may offer you a simple maxim, "Be interesting," Everyone wants to be interesting -- but the vitalizing thing is to be interested. Keep a sense of curiosity. Discover new things. Care. Risk failure. Reach out.