### 2025-01-16
#### FFMPEG by example
As always I am a sucker for a good FFMPEG resource: [FFmpeg By Example](https://ffmpegbyexample.com/) #ffmpeg 

#### Wellness Culture and Partying
[What wellness culture gets wrong about partying | Dazed](https://www.dazeddigital.com/life-culture/article/65839/1/should-we-party-alcohol-wellness-culture-becomes-unwell-drinking-going-out) #alcohol #drinking #wellness 

> As it turns out, Professor Dunbar’s research has also found that alcohol is a “very good” trigger of this system.
> 
> In practice, this means that moderate social drinking can actually have a net positive effect on our overall health. What’s more, Professor Dunbar suggests that these benefits have likely been recognised by our biology for millions of years. “It requires two enzymes acting in tandem to convert alcohol back into sugars that the body can use for energy, but these have to be in perfect balance because the intermediate step is highly poisonous,” he explains. “We share these enzymes only with the African great apes, so the ability to detoxify alcohols (in rotting fruits) is very ancient in our lineage, probably dating back around eight to ten million years.”
> 
> Still, he is careful to emphasise that it’s the laughter that actually produces the beneficial effects – and alcohol only helps us get there. “The important difference is between alcohol as a social lubricant and getting incapably drunk as fast as possible. The idea is to sit and talk to people and laugh with them,” he explains – _not_ spend the night blackout drunk before falling asleep fully clothed next to a kebab.

#### NYT Amplifier
[Readers Pick the Songs That Defined Their Year - The New York Times](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/01/14/arts/music/amplifier-newsletter-sinead-oconnor-ana-moura.html) #music #playlist

YouTube Music Playlist: [The Amplifier: Readers Pick the Songs That Defined Their Year](https://music.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLu_RmAJBNiII-hszRW8VvGBntENhZcuJA&si=fMr-PTos4iMTqjWq)

#### Reading as a creative act

> Focus your efforts not on “finishing books” but on “answering questions.” Keep the questions you’re trying to answer top of mind. Every now and then, make a list of all the things you’re most curious about, and as you ponder the questions you can list the books or papers that seem relevant for each. The questions are primary; the books and papers are secondary. (Once you’ve formulated your list of questions and reading trails, you don’t necessarily have to take any action on it. It just helps to bring all the subconscious stuff to the surface, so that it can more effectively guide your intuitive choices around what to read next.)
> 
> Your reading list will be effectively infinite. Don’t attempt to keep this list organized. I used to maintain an organized database of more than a five hundred book recommendations in Notion, categorized by topic and author etc, and I barely touch it these days. Nowadays whenever there’s a book or paper I’d like to read I just make a note about it in my daily notes. But importantly, I don’t just jot down the name of the book/article – I also jot down _why_ I’m interested in reading it in that moment. What question do I imagine it will answer? How do I expect the book to change me? I find that clearly stating the feelings and reasons behind my interest helps me prioritize more effectively, and it helps me relax about the high likelihood that I will never read the thing I’ve just jotted down.
> 
> Notice and relinquish your psychological attachment to the “book” as a form. The book is not the _point_ of intellectual work (neither is the paper); it’s merely a tool that can be used in the service of it. It’s been incredibly helpful for me to slowly purge my romantic preciousness around the book as a physical object. In the past I’d keep all my books in pristine condition, never highlighting or annotating them (even for my PDF files!). Nowadays I highlight and annotate like a madman, though I’m still a little too obsessive about keeping my physical books tidy.
> 
> Don’t get too attached to your notes either. I’ve expended lots of effort on making my notes pretty, organized, and extremely thorough (see e.g. my notes on [Beginning of Infinity](https://roamresearch.com/#/app/kasra-public/page/ZYHTbdfdd) or [Bear’s neuroscience textbook](https://www.bitsofwonder.co/p/textbooks-as-a-preventative-for-depression)), and this hasn’t proved particularly helpful to anyone. Aesthetics matter, but only for the things you or others are likely to look at often; most of your notes won’t meet this condition.

…

> I’ve made this mental list of “what matters when reading,” which helps me avoid spending too much time on the wrong thing. In order, what matters most to least is:
> 
> - the output of your reading process (i.e. essays)    
> - the existence of the ideas in your brain
> - the notes you take in your notebook
> - the list of books you’ve finished

#### Interesting Go testing technique

> There’s an excellent Go testing pattern that too few people know. I can teach it to you in 30 seconds.
> 
> Instead of writing Go tests like this:


```go
// The common, unrefined way.
username := GetUser()
if username != "dummyUser" {
  t.Errorf("unexpected username: got %s, want: %s", username, "dummyUser")
}
```

> Write your tests like this, beginning each assertion with `if got, want :=`:

```go
// The underused, elegant way.
if got, want := GetUser(), "dummyUser"; got != want {
  t.Errorf("username=%s, want=%s", got, want)
}
```

The `if got, want :=`: pattern works even better in [table-driven tests](https://go.dev/wiki/TableDrivenTests). Here’s an example from [my library for parsing social media handles](https://github.com/mtlynch/social-go/blob/5348ed8e66e318651c646aea4d72ef62481c30fa/twitter_test.go):