### 2025-02-11
#### How do radical ideas go mainstream
[How do Radical Ideas Go Mainstream?  - by Alice Evans](https://www.ggd.world/p/how-do-radical-ideas-go-mainstream) #feminism #radical

> Over the 1970s, Americans rapidly became much more supportive of gender equality. Departing from the cult of domesticity, families increasingly came to support equal rights at work and in politics, as well as the transformation of intimate relationships.
> 
> What enabled this remarkable shift?  
>   
> Most Americans encountered feminism indirectly, yet media coverage was overwhelmingly hostile. Mainstream news, like the New York Times, focused on outrageous protests and vilified feminists as rebellious extremists.
> 
> Some scholars point to ‘counter-publics’ - ‘feminist consciousness-raising’ in small groups, which problematised sexism and envisioned more egalitarian alternatives. Feminist newsletters and bookstores also gained popularity - at least in San Francisco. But how did radicalism spread beyond small activist circles to influence millions of Americans?
> 
> A tremendous new paper by [Francesca Polletta, Debra Boka, Caroline Martínez and Mutsumi Ogaki](https://www.journals.uchicago.edu/doi/10.1086/734377) offers an answer which I had previously overlooked, but immediately found compelling. Women’s magazines like Ladies’ Home Journal and McCall’s made feminism _relatable_. And they reached a massive audience - 50 million plus. A single issue of McCall’s reached one in four American women! Bam.
> 

#### Podscript Support for Amazon Bedrock and Gemini
Samrat Jha added support for two additional models for Podscript's YouTube captions cleanup subcommand.

- Gemini: [feat: Add Gemini support by samratjha96 · Pull Request #23 · deepakjois/podscript · GitHub](https://github.com/deepakjois/podscript/pull/23)
- Amazon Bedrock: [feat: Add Amazon Bedrock support by samratjha96 · Pull Request #22 · deepakjois/podscript · GitHub](https://github.com/deepakjois/podscript/pull/22)

Super pumped to see more people being interested in this tool.

#### Jessica DeFino interview in L’ADN magazine
[Care/Expression Vs. Harm/Oppression](https://jessicadefino.substack.com/p/careexpression-vs-harmoppression) #beauty #psychology #skincare 

> **L’ADN: Why can seemingly harmless beauty trends be harmful? For instance: glass skin and its derivatives, celebrity brands, Sephora Kids, but feel free to choose your favorites…**
> 
> **JD:** There are psychological, physical, and environmental consequences to nearly every beauty trend, on the individual and collective levels. To use glass skin as an example: On the psychological level, this is literal self-objectification. On the physical level, the excessive product use required to create that glassy effect can damage the skin barrier, disrupt the skin microbiome, and cause inflammation. On an environmental level, we’re continuously producing and consuming products — products often produced with fossil fuels and petrochemicals — in order to meet a definitionally unmeetable goal, which exacerbates the industry’s devastating impact on global warming.

#### In Praise of Ponzis
[In Praise of Ponzis](https://www.drorpoleg.com/in-praise-of-ponzis/) #crypto #product #marketing

> Today, there is an abundance of many things, if not everything. And most traditional gatekeepers have lost their old powers (even those that are doing well financially like, say, The New York Times, have a far smaller share of global mindshare than they used to).
> 
> Today, the main gatekeepers are the crowd and the algorithms that gauge and guide the crowd's attention. These algorithms create a world in which the biggest winners are bigger than ever. Success breeds success, creating path dependencies that make it hard for runners-up to catch up. In a growing number of industries, rewards are power-law distributed. This means the crowd is more important than ever and that launching a successful product is both harder and more lucrative than ever.
> 
> "Harder" might not be the right word. Let me rephrase: Launching a successful product is riskier than ever and more dependent on random forces than ever. In the past, a producer could rely on their own manufacturing capacity and on relationships with powerful gatekeepers to guarantee a product's success. It did not always work, but it often worked.
> 
> Today, producers can launch products more easily. But so can their competitors. And ultimate success depends on the behavior of large groups of people. These people cannot be coaxed or threatened. But they can be bribed.

#### Jujutsu Version Control System
[Jujutsu VCS Introduction and Patterns | Kuba Martin](https://kubamartin.com/posts/introduction-to-the-jujutsu-vcs/) #jujutsu #version #control #git #tools 

Looks like this is the new hotness and best of all, it's based on Git. Hoping to play around more later.