### 2025-01-05
#### Are you really okay being this incurious?
[Are you really okay being this incurious? - by Bhuvan](https://bhuvan.substack.com/p/are-you-really-okay-being-this-incurious) #curiosity #reading 

Somebody recommended this Substack to me, and as soon I discovered it, I had this instant bolt of relatability and a deep urge to read every single post in the archives. This guy lives in the same city as I am in currently and writes so brilliantly, I would love to meet him sometime and pick his brain.

> I've been thinking about this because, for some reason, I started noticing that a lot of people around me are ok, not knowing a lot of things. In fact, they've deliberately made the choice not to explore. This was bothering me because I don't know what that feels like. I'm more or less talking about reading. Not just books but all forms of reading.
> 
> Why would people be okay not knowing something?
> 
> I don't get it. What's the point of life if it doesn't involve a deep desire to discover weird and wonderful things? Is that life even worth living?

I especially like this frenzied rant in which he drops a load of interesting references one after the other in quick succession.

> What's the whole fucking point of life if you don't look forward to discovering _The Lord of The Rings_ and marveling at how the fuck Tolkien imagined such a rich world of fantasy, or staring awkwardly at people's toes for clues after reading _Sherlock Holmes_, or discovering some German dude called Hegel for the first time and thinking was he high on cheap skunk weed when he wrote whatever the fuck he wrote, or feeling that existential gut-punch when you discover Byung-Chul Han, or feeling that righteous anger and urge to start a fucking revolution after reading an introduction to Marx, or losing yourself in the maddening delights and oneiric reveries of Gaston Bachelard, or learning about the backstory of our fractured world in Adam Tooze's _Crashed_, or trying to grasp what Tracy Smith means when she says poetry is about expressing "the feelings that defy language", or feeling a deep ache in your heart when you translate Marceline Desbordes-Valmore's “A Brook of the Scarpe”?
> 
> What's the whole fucking point of life if you don't look forward to discovering the magical world that's waiting for us in Ursula K. Le Guin's _The Books of Earthsea_, or the madness in Douglas Adams' _The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy_, or the feeling of reading Mario Puzo's _The Godfather_ for the second time, or wondering why Amartya Sen titled his book _Home in the World_, or slouching as you read Brad DeLong's _Slouching Toward Utopia_, or learning about the great booms and busts that William Quinn wants to tell us about?
> 
> What's the whole fucking point of life if you don't laugh out loud at the endless sexual escapades and divinely human follies of the gods in Stephen Fry's _Mythos_ series, or feel the pain of the homeless Uyghurs through their poems, or marvel at the lyrical beauty of the French poets and be startled at their weird French...ness, or wrestle with the "conflict of dharma" that Kaushik Basu reveals in his translation of the epic Mahabharata, or feel a sense of reverence wash over you and fill you with awe as you read Carl Sagan's _Cosmos_, or look forward to raging against the machine after reading Yann Moulier-Boutang's _Cognitive Capitalism_, or get incandescent with anger after reading Shoshana Zuboff's _The Age of Surveillance Capitalism_, or go on a galactic journey with Asimov's _Foundation_?