### 2025-02-27
#### Podscript UI overhaul
[UI overhaul · deepakjois/podscript@ef94c87 · GitHub](https://github.com/deepakjois/podscript/commit/ef94c87b5f95a48dd94184a9a2b932786dec5225) #podscript #react #shadcn

Overhauled the Podscript web UI with close to 1000 lines of AI assisted React code that uses [shadcn](https://ui.shadcn.com/) components.

I used Cursor heavily because my React foo is kinda rusty. However, I did get it to explain every line of code to me as a learning exercise. Along the way, I was able to prompt the AI to improve some of the code it generated, so I am gonna say it was a very collaborative endeavor.

#### Roti
[Community-Based Research Explores Roti’s Global Histories – SAPIENS](https://www.sapiens.org/culture/roti-collective-gender-histories-community/) #roti #food #history #culture

> _Kale roti_, for example, is a regional delicacy from Bangladesh that contains black gram beans (_mashkalai_) and other flours, and is eaten with mashed dishes made of chili, eggplant, tomato, or spiced beef. Using ingredients such as melted butter and cake flour changes the flatbread’s texture into the soft and spongy South African _butter roti._ In South Asia, Kenya, and Uganda, the flatbread goes by “chapati,” from the Urdu-Hindi root word “chapat” (slap), referring to the slapping technique used to flatten dough balls into thin, round discs before cooked on a _tawa_, or hot griddle. In Guyana, the name “clap roti” similarly points to a clapping technique for fashioning a flaky, tender roti—perfect for picking up steaming hot goat curry. In the Indian province of Gujarat, there is an extra-thin roti called a _rotli_. In Malaysia, the word “roti” can refer to many types of leavened and unleavened breads, including the famous _roti canai_, enjoyed as a circular, crunchy, flaky bread. And in various places, people have created versions to accommodate dietary restrictions and preferences, including vegan roti.

#### Slop
[The New Aesthetics of Slop - by Ted Gioia](https://www.honest-broker.com/p/the-new-aesthetics-of-slop) #ai #slop

> We have come a long way from the days of Impressionism and Naturalism and all the rest. Those were _serious_ movements. They happened because of dedicated artists committed to their craft.
> 
> Slop is the opposite.
> 
> It’s the perfect aesthetic theory for 12 year olds with no artistic sensitivty—but possessing a crude sense of humor and lots of pop culture detritus in their heads.
> 
> Tech companies embrace this—and even brag about the sloppiness of their Slop. Each generation of AI aspires to new levels of whackness.


> AI does not possess a self. It lacks personhood. It has no experience of subjectivity. So any art it creates will inevitably feel empty and hollow.

The Slop Manifesto is pretty cool!