### 2025-01-21
#### Beauty Burnout
[Signs you may be suffering from beauty burnout \| Dazed](https://www.dazeddigital.com/beauty/article/65834/1/are-you-suffering-from-beauty-burnout)

> Beauty routines are often sold to us as acts of self-love – a way to pamper, express ourselves and feel confident. But for many women, these rituals have become less about joy and more about obligation. The constant upkeep, the endless appointments, the perpetual self-monitoring, the overwhelm of products, the non-stop beauty content and the pressure to meet ever-evolving standards, has left countless women feeling exhausted. Welcome to beauty burnout, a phenomenon where the pursuit of perfection leaves women feeling drained, financially strained, and emotionally overwhelmed.

…

> This beauty tax isn’t just about time – it’s a significant financial burden, and a gendered issue that puts women at an additional economic and temporal disadvantage. Women feel the need to invest heavily in their appearance in order to be worthy of visibility, opportunity and respect, in a way that men simply do not. Despite the rising costs of treatments, and the fact that [women are getting into debt for beauty](https://www.dazeddigital.com/beauty/article/56545/1/the-price-of-beauty-debt-crisis-pay-for-cosmetic-treatments-botox-filler), we continue to participate because the penalties for nonconformity can be severe. Research shows that women who don’t adhere to beauty standards face both social and economic consequences, from lower wages to reduced opportunities for advancement.
> 
> The paradox is particularly cruel: women are valued for their beauty and physical attractiveness but often penalised and judged for putting effort into enhancing their appearance. The’re expected to employ rigorous self-discipline and monitoring while appearing nonchalant and unconcerned by beauty at all.…

…

> The reality is that when we consider the constant self-monitoring, psychological labour and time expended, most women receive a negative return on what is sold to us as beauty ‘investment’. And on top of that, we’re left burnt out and exhausted. Despite our changing role in society and increased earning potential, beauty standards are more prescriptive than ever. The gender status quo is largely preserved, if not worsened, by the increasing aestheticisation of our world and the [ever-increasing beauty tax women face](https://www.dazeddigital.com/beauty/article/55974/1/not-ugly-just-poor-how-the-beauty-industry-is-widening-the-class-divide).
