### 2025-07-11
#### Why I don't want a boyfriend
[Why I don't want a boyfriend - by Sky Fusco - Unsupervised](https://lordcowboy.substack.com/p/why-i-dont-want-a-boyfriend) #boyfriend #relationships

> I’ve been dating men for twenty years. I’ve merged lives with brooding musicians, flamboyant jocks, hard-working farmers, single dads, tortured professors, treehouse builders, and award-winning chefs. I tried to love these men for who they were, and not for what they did, but it was impossible. Their actions towards love were clouded by ego, coercion, control, dominance, manipulation, self-loathing, reactivity, weaponized incompetence, and cowardice. With one exception, I don’t remember any of them taking the time to sit still, self-reflect, or even jot some thoughts down in a journal.
> 
> Currently, I see multiple generations of men who haven’t done any inner work, and generations of women who have done all of it. Men can barely look at themselves, and women are taught to look too much. This disparity is sad for everyone involved, but because of it, I rarely _feel_ the benefits of the “love” men try to offer me, especially when compared to the nourishment and deep intimacy provided by my friendships with _everyone else_.
> 
> It turns out that love starts with the self, and it requires courage, attention, and devotion. Deeply loving someone, and being loved by them in return, requires radically loving ourselves. In my experience, most men don’t even like themselves. It’s no wonder I don’t really feel their love.

Ok this made me chuckle

> An exception to my boredom is when I’m romancing academics—men who read profusely and have knowledge to share—or men who are phenomenally skilled and obsessed with their work. I learn so much from them, but both of these archetypes ultimately make difficult partners, namely because they’re workaholics. They are, however, good temporary lovers, and can turn into the best peers.
> 
> These days, I cherish my friendships with men who aren’t trying to court or possess me—mentors, dads, friendly neighbors, helpers, or the partners of my friends. They _almost_ see me; there’s no fantasy for them to project onto me, blocking their view. And if there is, I don’t have to know about it.