### 2025-05-21
#### Preferences on Dating Apps
[‘Swipe left if you’re under 6ft’: Why are we so obsessed with height? \| Dazed](https://www.dazeddigital.com/beauty/article/66828/1/swipe-left-if-youre-under-6ft-why-are-we-obsessed-with-height-tall-men-dating) #dating #height

> Plus, there’s often a gap between people’s self-reported preferences and their actual desires. Or, in other words, there’s a difference between what people _say_ they want on dating apps and what _really_ attracts them in real life. “Dating apps encourage trait-based decisions: users rely on profile details and photos, making choices based on abstract concepts. By contrast, offline attraction is holistic and dynamic, involving nonverbal cues, synchrony, and how someone makes you feel,” Dr Jackson explains.
> 
> 	“In real life, we’re drawn to things like how someone moves, how they listen or make us laugh, their energy, presence, and charisma,” he continues. “These are what we call ‘affective cues’ – these cues play a big role in forming real-world attraction, but they’re almost entirely absent online, where we judge people from a few photos. In person, we also tend to become more forgiving and open once we’ve formed a sense of someone’s warmth, humour, or kindness.” He adds that research shows physical appearance matters less and less over time in ongoing relationships, once deeper emotional bonds have begun to form.
> 
> This is one of the myriad issues with online dating: apps inhibit our ability to be curious and imaginative about what we might want. They expect us to possess an unrealistic level of self-knowledge about all of our desires, as if desire is fixed and immutable rather than fluid and ever-changing. But we don’t have to play by apps’ rules – disengaging from rigid ideas about physical ‘types’ and fostering open-mindedness remains our best bet when it comes to finding lasting love.

