### 2025-04-26
#### Coffee Varieties beyond Arabica and Robusta

> That’s why Davis is so interested in rediscovering lost coffee species. It’s not that any single species will provide a magical solution to the many challenges facing global coffee production—not even a mythical heat-and-drought-resistant coffee plant like stenophylla. But certain rare species could be used both to partly replace crops in areas that are becoming too hot for them and to crossbreed new, sturdier strains. To make this happen, though, scientists will need genetic resources from which to choose the best traits—and not only those that make them unusually resilient, but also those that impart a great taste, too. That last part is crucial. No species, however resilient, can become the coffee of the future if people don’t find it delicious.

#### Manufacturing Viability in US
[Why It’s Impossible for Most Small Businesses to Manufacture in the US \| WIRED](https://archive.is/0hzIV)

This is a great article with a lot of research and interviews on the ground with vendors and suppliers that makes the case that tariffs are unlikely to stimulate manufacturing in the US because there are so many other factors at play here.

> Cost is undeniably an important reason why businesses choose to source from China. But experts say it’s incorrect to assume that lower prices mean lower quality, and the reason manufacturing in China is cheaper than other regions doesn’t always have to do with how much workers are paid. In fact, lower wages have become a less important aspect of China’s manufacturing strength as the country has moved up the [value chain](https://archive.is/o/0hzIV/https://www.wired.com/story/china-microchip-autonomy-huawei/), says Eli Friedman, an associate professor studying China’s labor force at Cornell University.
> 
> “You definitely can’t say because wages in Chinese factories are only 25 percent of what American counterparts are working for, that the quality is going to be 25 percent of the American product,” Friedman says. “That’s much too simplistic a way to think about this.”
> 
> Cultural norms like working long hours and intentionally spending decades in the same industry often means that workers in China have become more skilled and specialized in certain areas. China is also a world leader in the production of industrial tools, which means factories can easily adjust machinery to fit the ever-changing needs of their customers. As a result, Chinese factories are often more responsive to customization demands from clients and more capable of precisely orchestrating their design intentions.

> Kim Vaccarella, the founder and CEO of a handbag company called Bogg, makes products out of EVA, a rubber-like petroleum byproduct also used for flipflops and yoga mats. Vaccarella says it’s possible to make EVA products in Vietnam, but when she researched sourcing from there, she found that a lot of the factories were Chinese-owned and employed Chinese engineers. “China has mastered EVA. They’ve been doing shoes in EVA for 20-plus years, so it was really our first choice,” Vaccarella says.
> 
> If Bogg tried to move its manufacturing to the US, Vaccarella says she believes she would also need to hire Chinese talent to help ensure the production lines were set up correctly. But she worries that would be difficult, especially given the Trump administration’s current policies to reduce immigration. “With everything going on with our borders, is it going to be hard to get the visas for the Chinese counterparts to come in and be able to help us build this business?” she asks.
