### 2025-06-17
#### Adults TV Show
[What can we learn from TV shows about friendship? \| Dazed](https://www.dazeddigital.com/film-tv/article/66946/1/what-can-we-learn-tv-shows-friendship-adults-friends-new-girl-capitalism) #tv #adults #friendship 

> In the last episode of FX’s new comedy series _Adults_, which follows a group of friends in their twenties, Paul Baker (Jack Innanen) gets a letter from the US government notifying him that his visa is expiring and that he must leave the US and go back to Canada. His friends, Samir (Malik Elassal), Billie (Lucy Freyer), Anton (Owen Thiele) and his girlfriend Issa (Amita Rao), who he lives with, are devastated. To ensure he can stay in the country, Issa asks him to marry her, to which he gratefully, but also begrudgingly, agrees. 
>
> While the journey to get there is _incredibly_ convoluted, they eventually arrive at the courthouse to wed. However, before they’re about to get married, Issa gets cold feet, telling Billie that marrying Paul is different from when she jokingly married her ex-friend Zack-Carlos because her marriage to Paul would be real. To Paul’s surprise, Billie walks down the aisle in Issa’s place, telling Paul that Issa isn’t ready to marry him but that they do not want to lose him and that she will marry him instead. This results in the entire friendship group arguing as they all volunteer to marry their Canadian friend. To end the bickering, Issa rejoins the group at the altar, apologising and professing to Paul: “We all love you. We just want you to stay. So, literally, any of us would marry you. Paul Baker, you choose. What do you want?”

