### 2025-07-16
#### Google Finds a Crack in Amazon’s Cloud Dominance
[Google Finds a Crack in Amazon’s Cloud Dominance — The Information](https://www.theinformation.com/articles/google-finds-crack-amazons-cloud-dominance?rc=arnbfe) #gcp #google #aws #amazon #ai  #startups 

> AWS generates more than twice as much revenue as Google Cloud and has long dominated the market for selling cloud services to startups. But the Dia episode and other examples show how Google has become competitive in attracting AI startups to its cloud, thanks to Gemini and other capabilities AWS doesn’t have.
> 
> AWS’ struggle to develop a strong AI model of its own has fueled a perception that it is trailing Google in developing cutting-edge AI.
> 
> That’s a big turnaround after Google’s earlier struggles with previous versions of Gemini and startups’ widespread complaints about the difficulty of setting up Google Cloud accounts for AI computing.
> 
> Google Cloud has even landed business from two high-profile AI startups its own AI teams compete with: Safe Superintelligence Inc., led by former OpenAI Chief Scientist Ilya Sutskever; and Thinking Machines Lab, helmed by former OpenAI Chief Technology Officer Mira Murati. (AWS may have wanted Murati’s business, too: Amazon CEO Andy Jassy [met with her in San Francisco](https://www.theinformation.com/articles/ex-openai-cto-muratis-startup-plans-compete-openai-others?rc=c48ukx) earlier this year.)
> 
> Google Cloud also recently won business from an even fiercer rival, OpenAI, which has been a major customer of Microsoft cloud servers but has been branching out to other providers.

#### Aruna Roy on Jane Austen
[Social activist Aruna Roy on Jane Austen’s enduring appeal  - The Hindu](https://www.thehindu.com/books/jane-austen-250-years-pride-and-prejudice-adaptations-influence-aruna-roy/article69782604.ece?pnespid=suhiAy1JKKhF2OKdpD.uTJzR4w2jS54tNbKukbMxp0Bm4q8_sdtySpPqAeMpm1PORjGFB46p7g) 

> As we mark the 250th anniversary of Austen’s birth, I am reminded of British-American poet W.H. Auden’s remark about her in his ‘Letter to Lord Byron’_._
> 
> _…It makes me most uncomfortable to see_
> 
> _An English spinster of the middle-class_
> 
> _Describe the amorous effects of ‘brass’,_
> 
> _Reveal so frankly and with such sobriety_
> 
> _The economic basis of society…_

#### Raising Children
[Learning to Parent in Community – SAPIENS](https://www.sapiens.org/biology/to-raise-children-we-must-first-raise-parents/) #parenting #caregiving #culture #anthropology 

> Bebuna, a woman in her 60s, sits in front of her hut breastfeeding her granddaughter. I had never seen an older woman nursing and—even as an evolutionary anthropologist—didn’t realize it was biologically possible.
> 
> “Are you producing milk?” I asked.
> 
> Bebuna squeezed her breast, and white droplets appeared.
> 
> It turns out that lactating people can produce milk indefinitely, as long as they continue breastfeeding baby after baby. Bebuna has been doing just that for decades, as a midwife and caregiver to many children in her community.
>
> Bebuna is a member of the BaYaka, a collective name for several forest-living forager groups west of the Congo River. [1] Her community lives in the northern Republic of Congo and speaks the Mbendjele language. In 2013, I began visiting Mbendjele BaYaka camps to research how people learn from others in a hunter-gatherer society.

> There are countless ways to raise children, shaped by cultural traditions or, in more individualistic societies, by personal choices among various parenting philosophies. All approaches bring benefits and challenges. But community-oriented cultures like the BaYaka get at least one thing right: Parenting should not be learned in isolation or all at once—it is a lifelong process embedded in daily life long before one has a child and long after.
> 
> Unlike me, the BaYaka learn to parent before they become parents.

> Among both babies under 1.5 years and children aged 1.5–4, around 40 percent of their close care, including holding and physical contact, was provided by “allomothers”—caregivers other than the biological mother. On average, each child had 14 people within arm’s reach throughout the day.
> 
> Mothers responded to just under half of all crying bouts. Allomothers soothed the rest—over 40 percent on their own, the remainder alongside the mother. Soothing often meant drumming on the child’s back or yodeling to gently calm the child.
> 
> And who were these allomothers? [Mostly, other children](https://www.cambridge.org/core/services/aop-cambridge-core/content/view/83FCF3FE88DBDC6093B1DE69A2612ADD/S2513843X2400001Xa_hi.pdf/hunter-gatherer-childrens-close-proximity-networks-similarities-and-differences-with-cooperative-and-communal-breeding-systems.pdf). These young helpers were more involved, collectively, than fathers or grandmothers.

> Parenting is never perfect. Cultures raise children differently, shaping adults valued by their own standards. But, based on my experiences, one truth emerges: Learning to care for others should start long before having a baby.
> 
> Two years into parenthood, I have more questions than answers. Growing up in Turkey, studying across Europe and Canada, and working in the U.K., I had never held a newborn until I had Eren. I spent my childhood and early adulthood learning subjects like math, physics, and literature—what my societies valued most. My first months of motherhood were emotionally overwhelming because of the steep learning curve I had to scale.
> 
> I wish, like the BaYaka, my parenting lessons had followed a gentler slope, stretched across my lifespan. The same could be said about other essential life skills like growing food, caring for our elders, and dealing with death.
> 
> For those of us living in individualistic societies, what happened that people stopped caring to learn life’s basics? Take a note from the BaYaka and other community-oriented cultures: Bring these lessons back into learning journeys.