### 2026-02-13
#### How Courtship Transformed Masculinity
[How Courtship Transformed Masculinity - by Alice Evans](https://www.ggd.world/p/how-courtship-transformed-masculinity) #romance #relationships #culture #anthropology 

> Ask an economist what drives progress towards gender equality, they’ll probably emphasise sustained economic growth, contraceptives, and female employment. Talk to a political scientist, hear that it’s all about feminist activism. All valid, but I want to add a culture of female choice, male competition, and marital companionship.
> 
> While romantic love is experienced worldwide, there is enormous variation in the extent to which it is celebrated or suppressed. In regions where marriages are arranged by kin or coerced through brutal violence, her wants and welfare count for little. If divorce is stigmatised, she cannot credibly threaten exit and must then endure any abuse.
>
> …
> 
> What follows is a speech I performed at my German friends’ wedding: two thousand years of history through the lens of marriage, starting with Ancient Rome to the Reformation, Wars of Religion and subsequent Romanticism, all the way to 1970s counter-cultural liberalisation.

#### Situationism - what people do is more often a function of their circumstances
[Getting the Crab to the Beach - by Josh Zlatkus](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/getting-the-crab-to-the-beach) #evo-psych #evolution #psychology 

> A few months ago, I wrapped up a long [series](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/how-to-understand-human-behavior) on human behavior arguing for situationism—the idea that what people do is more often a function of their circumstances than their character. I was pleased to discover afterwards that Angela Duckworth [agrees](https://www.nytimes.com/2025/12/28/opinion/willpower-doesnt-work-this-does.html).


> In my musings on mental health, I frequently return to images of animals radically out of place: crabs in the canopy, otters in the desert, armadillos in the arctic. What would we learn by studying such animals? One obvious lesson is that if we wanted to help them, we should send them home. It would be a waste of time—or worse—to focus on what they were thinking, feeling, or doing, since these would be the downstream outputs of an animal in the wrong environment.
> 
> For example, we could draw all sorts of conclusions by watching a crab scrabble at the smooth surface of a tree branch. _Perhaps there is food just under the bark. Maybe it’s a mating ritual or territorial instinct._ The correct explanation, of course, would be that the crab is trying, unsuccessfully, to burrow in the sand. Yet we’d have a hell of a time figuring this out if we didn’t already know that crabs belong on the beach.
> 
> …
> 
> Humans, of course, are crabs in the canopy. We are vacuum cleaners on the roof. This modern world we have [built](https://thelivingfossils.substack.com/p/taxes-of-the-built-environment), in the blink of an evolutionary eye, is not our ancestral home. So we live in many ways for which we were not designed—for example, in the constant presence of so many strangers. Yet few people carry this perspective with them, even into fields like therapy, where you might expect it to be foundational. The result is that when distress appears in its various confusing forms, therapists and laypeople rarely treat it as situational pathology—as the noxious byproduct of a poor fit between person and environment.

#### Millenials vs GenZ
Enjoyed this little dig at GenZ culture (as an elder )