### 2026-01-18

#### Guardian Profile on Adam Tooze
[The crisis whisperer: how Adam Tooze makes sense of our bewildering age \| Economics \| The Guardian](https://www.theguardian.com/business/2026/jan/15/the-crisis-whisperer-how-adam-tooze-makes-sense-of-our-bewildering-age)

I am an unabashed [Tooze Boy](https://nymag.com/intelligencer/article/adam-tooze-profile.html), so I thoroughly enjoyed reading every bit of this long article.

#### Anil Dash on a Career in Tech
[How the hell are you supposed to have a career in tech in 2026? - Anil Dash](https://www.anildash.com/2026/01/05/a-tech-career-in-2026/) #jobs #software 

> The first, and most important, thing to know is that _it’s not just you_. Nearly everyone in tech I have this conversation with feels very isolated about it, and they’re often embarrassed or ashamed to discuss it. They think that everyone else who has a job in tech is happy or comfortable at their current employers, or that the other people looking for work are getting calls back or are being offered interviews in response to their job applications. But I’m here to tell you: it is grim right now. About as bad as I’ve seen. And I’ve been around a long time.

> The public narrative is dominated by the loud minority of dudes who are content to appease the egos of their bosses, sucking up to the worse impulses of those in charge. An industry that used to pride itself on publicly reporting security issues and openly disclosing vulnerabilities now circles its wagons to gang up on people who suggest that an AI tool shouldn’t tell children to harm themselves, that perhaps it should be possible to write a law limiting schools from deploying AI platforms that are known to tell kids to end their own lives. People in tech endure their bosses using slurs at work, making jokes about sexual assault, consorting with leaders who have directly planned the murder of journalists, engaging in open bribery in blatant violation of federal law and their own corporate training on corruption, and have to act like it’s normal.

> This too shall pass. One of the great gifts of working in technology is that it’s given so many of us the habit of constantly learning, of always being curious and paying attention to the new things worth discovering. That healthy and open-minded spirit is an important part of how to navigate a moment when lots of people are being laid off, or lots of energy and attention are being focused on products and initiatives that don’t have a lot of substance behind them. Eventually, people will want to return to what’s real. The companies that focus on delivering products with meaning, and taking care of employees over time, will be the ones that are able to persist past the current moment. So building habits that enable resiliency at both a personal and professional level is going to be key.
> 
> As I’ve been fond of saying for a long time: don’t let your job get in the way of your career.


#### Laptop Boyfriends
[The Laptop Boyfriends Can’t Stop Watching YouTube in Bed](https://archive.ph/XNB0H#selection-2381.0-2388.0

>…YouTube has joined sleep and sex on the short list of activities that occur between the sheets. “The post-coital cigarette is a lost art, so now it’s the post-coital vape and YouTube,” says Weeks. In Gaffney’s relationships, he believes “it was the time and place in which I consumed that was the issue.” He imagines his romantic partners “probably would’ve wanted to do things sexually and that opportunity wasn’t afforded to them because I was watching YouTube.”
>
> Nadia, 30, lives in Paris with her software-engineer husband, who is also 30. She first became aware of his YouTube obsession while watching the Netflix reality-competition series _Culinary Class Wars_ together. Bafflingly, he could identify esoteric gastronomy techniques and recognize chefs from restaurants he’d never even visited. “He just knows so much,” she says. “And I know it’s all from YouTube because he’s not, like, reading cookbooks frequently.” (Nadia asked to go by only her first name for privacy.)

> But for every relationship in which YouTube is a bridge between partners, there’s another in which it’s a wedge. For Nadia’s husband, YouTube is [a solo activity](https://archive.ph/o/XNB0H/https://www.gq.com/story/husband-meal-girl-dinner) that exists in addition to shared television time. “Sometimes after a day of socializing, he specifically can’t focus on something on the TV or a 45-minute Netflix show, so he has to watch a 20-minute YouTube show and then another 20-minute YouTube show,” Nadia says. “Once a week, he’s like, ‘No, give me my loafing time with my YouTube alone,’ because apparently watching a movie with me is socializing.”