### 2026-01-04
#### The gap between a Helpful Assistant and a Senior Engineer
[The gap between a Helpful Assistant and a Senior Engineer : ezyang's blog](https://blog.ezyang.com/2026/01/the-gap-between-a-helpful-assistant-and-a-senior-engineer/)

> One of the important functions of a senior engineer is to be able to evaluate the context a software project lives in and figure out if we need to do something, even if it isn’t explicitly asked for. This is contrast to a helpful assistant, who is first and foremost obligated to _follow the user’s instructions._ This leads to a gap between a Helpful Assistant and a Senior Engineer.

> Well, imagine a human L7 engineer who has just been hired by a big tech company to head up some big, new, multi-year initiative. Will they say, “Sure, I can help with that!” and start busily coding away? Of course not: they will go out and start reviewing code, reading docs, talking to people, asking questions, shadowing oncalls, doing small starter tasks–they will start by going out and building context. Here, the “helpful assistant” frame for LLMs is limiting: sure, Claude might ask you a few questions to clarify the task upfront, but if your coding agent starts asking you about “relevant partner teams” and “org-wide priorities for this half” you are definitely going to raise an eyebrow.

#### Thorsten Bell on AI Assisted Coding
[Joy & Curiosity #68 - by Thorsten Ball - Register Spill](https://registerspill.thorstenball.com/p/joy-and-curiosity-68?hide_intro_popup=true)

> For more than 15 years I thought that I loved writing code, that I loved typing out code by hand, that I loved the “cadence of typing”, as Gary Bernhardt once called it, when sitting in front of my editor and my fingers click-clacking on my keyboard.
> 
> Now, I’m not so sure anymore.  
>   
> 2025 was the year in which I deeply reconsidered my relationship to programming. In previous years I had the occasional “should I become a Lisp guy?”, sure, but not the “do I even like typing out code?” from last year.
> 
> What I learned over the course of the year is that typing out code by hand now frustrates me. It frustrates me in the same way that filling out a printed form by hand frustrates me. Writing my name and middle name and last name and my street address and my zip code in capital letters with this stupid pencil when all of this could’ve been done by a computer, god, why do I have to do this, why do you punish me? This is so stupid, so laborious, this shouldn’t exist. I once considered not taking the 50 Euros of reimbursement that Deutsche Bahn offered after a train was delayed for two hours because I would have had to fill out a form by hand.
> 
> Amp is now faster and better at writing code than I am and whenever I do have to go in and type some code it feels like I’m pulling out the sewing needle after the sewing machine broke down, like hammering nails by hand after the nail gun’s battery died.
> 
> And yet it was fun! It _was_ fun to write code by hand, for many, many years, and when it stopped being fun I was sad. Do I even love programming and building software if the actual writing of code is now a nuisance?
> 
> And the sadness went away when I found my answer to that question. Learning new things, making computers do things, making computers do things in new and fascinating and previously thought impossible ways, sharing what I built, sharing excitement, learning from others, understanding more of the world by putting something and myself out there and seeing how it resonates — that, I realized, is what actually makes me get up in the morning, not the typing, and all of that is still there.

#### One Day Everyone 
> On October 25, 2023, after just three weeks of the bombardment of Gaza, Omar El Akkad put out a tweet: “One day, when it’s safe, when there’s no personal downside to calling a thing what it is, when it’s too late to hold anyone accountable, everyone will have always been against this.” This tweet has been viewed more than 10 million times.